64 - WE MUST GIVE PRAISE


Don’t judge a book by its cover. Judge it by the harmful messages it
contains.


Welcome to Night Vale.


The enormous glowing cloud that serves as president of the Night Vale
School Board announced a five-year strategic plan for the school
district. The plan, put together over the past year by the
twelve-member board, lays out new curriculum goals, organizational
restructuring, and a comprehensive outline for eternal penitence
before the Mighty Glow Cloud.


Everyone present at the press conference fell to their knees and
praised the Glow Cloud – their eyes solid white, gray smoky wisps
swirling from their chanting mouths, hands clapping loudly in unison
– as miniature glowing colorful clouds swept about them.


“

 the Glow Cloud said. 


The crowd chanted along in worship of the Glow Cloud’s child, who is
currently a freshman at Night Vale High School. The young cloud is an
active member of both Show Choir and the Speechless Debate team.
Their education has long been an important part of the adult Glow
Cloud’s leadership in the education community.


The Sheriff’s Secret Police, in conjunction with several Vague, Yet
Menacing, Government Agencies, are calling on all citizens to be on
the lookout for two fugitives. Both Hiram McDaniels and the Faceless
Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home are wanted by authorities
for their recent attempts to usurp mayoral control of Night Vale.


Hiram is described as 

 a five-headed dragon. He is 18
feet tall, and his heads are colored blue, green, gold, gray, and
purple. They each have their own personality, sentience, memory, and
distinct markings and features.


The gray head often feels blue, and wears a green nose ring. The blue
head considers logic the gold standard of intellect, and has purple
eyes. The gold head is actually more of a sable, and will talk ‘til
he’s blue in the face. The purple head has grown gray with paranoid
fantasies and wears a gold neck chain that has a pendant with the
word “Violet” written in green gemstones. And the green head is
the real shouty one that wants to set everyone on fire, all the time.


The Secret Police are also on the hunt for the Faceless Old Woman,
whom they describe as “an elderly female without a face –
although, no one has ever actually seen her, so we’re all just
guessing. But, you’ll know you’re near her if you’re at home.
Particularly if you’re home alone and it’s dark, and you think you
hear breathing and creaking steps in another room. Under no
circumstances should you look. 

 You will not at all
like what you see,” the Secret Police said.


There is a reward for information leading to the arrest of either of
these fugitives. That reward is a gift card to Pier 1, a lifetime of
gratitude, and a couple of handwritten coupons for things like
washing the dishes, or a ten-minute back rub.

Um,
a couple of listeners have asked how my boyfriend Carlos is doing.
He’s still working on lots of interesting science projects in that
desert otherworld. It’s been almost a year since I last saw him in
person, and I miss him a lot. I’m waiting to hear back from Station
Management about getting vacation time so I can go visit him. It’s
nearly impossible to get approved for vacation and, even if you do,
you never know when or how you will find out.

At
most businesses, you just file some simple paperwork or ask your
direct supervisor, and after a few days they have someone from Human
Resources hide in the back seat of your car, and when you’re halfway
home they grab your face from behind, covering your eyes with one
hand and mouth with the other and shout “Your vacation has been
approved, congratulations!” And then, in your excitement, you take
them out for ice cream.

But
not in community radio. You can wait weeks, or months, to hear back.
In the meantime, though, I’ve been taking up watercolors again, and I
did something I’ve never done for anyone else I’ve ever been with. I
painted a picture of Carlos. He’s in profile, looking across his
desert otherworld, he’s wearing his Karl Lagerfeld-designed lab coat,
and there’s a car-sized Bichon Frisé atop a dune behind him.

And
it might be the best painting I’ve ever made. I had long given up
this old hobby, and lately I’ve grown so…oh, I don’t know…out of
touch? Lost? Disconnected? I just needed something to occupy my time.

Anyway,
I hung it above my desk, near the window, and I tell you, it really
gets me through the days, seeing my pastel Carlos in his brush-swept
otherworld paradise.

Let’s
take a look now at the Community Calendar.

Thursday
night, Dark Owl Records will be holding an open mic for anyone who
promises not to play any music, perform any poetry or comedy, or
produce any kind of art at all. Dark Owl owner Michelle Nguyen says
she hopes to not have to listen to or see any more art for as long as
she lives, which she is sure will be for a really long time.

“It’s
taking 

,
this life!” Nguyen said, before inserting an AOL Free Internet for
30 Days disc into her antique CD player. “This is the only thing I
can listen to anymore,” Nguyen added.

Friday
morning, the Society for a Blood Space War will be traveling back in
time and eliminating several future enemies before they gain training
and grow powerful. According to the group’s press kit, Friday is the
official day of the event, but since they’ll be traveling back in
time, it’s kind of moot because they’ve already done it. It’s just
that they recently hired a new PR manager, and he’s being all, like,
“you can’t announce an event without a date.”

Anyway,
they’ll have preemptively assassinated all future enemy leaders by
Friday morning.

Well,
this certainly explains the people in space suits who broke into our
break room here at the station last week and started a laser knife
battle with two folks from finance and our new intern, Hannah Reff –
who, it turns out, had some pretty sick laser knife fighting skills.
The finance folks went down easy, but Hannah managed to fight two of
her attackers off before the three remaining intruders grabbed her
and jumped en sacrificial masse into the temporary black hole they
had created near the coffee maker, thus ending Hannah’s future reign
of space terror.

To
the family of intern Hannah, she was a very good intern. 


focused, and always a friendly presence here in the office. She was
also a future warlord in the Blood Space War, but…you couldn’t have
known that. Only Hannah could have. She will be missed.

Where
was I? Oh. 

Saturday
afternoon on the Great Lawn is the Ennui Fair, sponsored by the Last
Bank of Night Vale. There will be some pouty clowns, indifferent to
simplistic balloon shapes of dogs. There will be local merchants and
artisans, standing hopelessly in small lots where they should be
setting up booths to showcase their wares, but can’t bring themselves
to do so because they’ve lost the thread…not just of the fair, but
of their careers and lives.

Organizers
say they expect cold rain that day, so you should……

And
then their press release just trails off.

Sunday,
all day, is the First Annual Ultimate Frisbee Tournament at the
Softball and Field Hockey Grounds, which were discovered last fall by
archaeologists over near the Olive Garden in the Problematic Birds
District. The archaeologists determined this ancient site was built
over four years ago by natives of this town, who enjoyed outdoor
activities like amateur softball and field hockey.

Tuesday
Afternoon is a pretty decent classic rock song.

It
has just been reported to me that the Night Vale PTA is upset about
the strategic plan created by the Night Vale School Board. Gordon
Moreno, president of the PTA, issued a statement criticizing the
School Board for not consulting parents and teachers when crafting
these changes.

Joined
by treasurer Diane Creighton, whose son Josh is a 9th grader at NVHS,
and secretary…Steve Carlsberg…whose stepdaughter Janice is in 2nd
grade, Moreno said the school board once again showed its lack of
care for parental input into the education and development of its
students.

“Parent’s
voices must be heard,” Moreno shouted from atop the statue of
immortal film actor Lee Marvin. Sitting on Marvin’s shoulders, legs
dangling like a denim-wrapped flesh scarf from the bronze sculptures
muscular neck, Moreno called for more transparency in education
planning.

Moreno
then clenched his teeth and lips and eyes as he kicked his legs back
and forth in a groaning, full body tantrum.

Let’s
take a look at financial news.

2,921
is a number. Which is up from many other numbers, definitely up, so
you should get really excited…or, perhaps, really upset over this.

Also,
the following words: Crime, debt, capital, offering, and portfolio.
Write those down and learn what they mean. Do not remember anything
that you learn, but seek the memory of what you learn in dreams.

Here’s
another number: 9.8 billion. That’s a very large number, one of the



numbers. Loosen your jaw and breathe in slowly through your nose when
you hear a number like that. 9.8 billion. That’s “billion,” with
two Ls. 

.
Wow!

This
has been financial news.

John
Peters – you know, the farmer? – called today to say he noticed
that Frank Chen has returned to town.

Some
of you recall that Frank went missing a while back, and a little over
two years ago his body was found by four kids who followed a railroad
track. Chen’s body was covered in extensive claw marks and burns,
most likely caused – according to the coroner’s report – by a
large dragon.

Anyway,
John said he’s seen Frank driving around town in his pickup truck,
doing some freelance construction work with a focus on carpentry and
restoration, just like he always did when he was alive. John said
Frank looks good.

“He’s
real tall now. And rotund,” John said from atop a telephone pole,
where he’d jimmied up a phone directly into the active lines. “Got
a tail and bunch of colorful heads now. Also he got one of them
crossover toolboxes and a class 4 adjustable hitch for his truck,”
John said, sounding impressed.

“I
guess death isn’t the end,” John added. “We all have to live on
in some way. Maybe it’s in the legacy we leave, or the memories other
people keep of us, or the feeling they have when they hear our names
or a stolen identity taken by someone still alive. Or just actual
physical immortality. It’s all a shame. Whatever it is. Such a damn
shame, everything is, I tell you.”

And
then there was a loud buzz, and a staticy pop, and a dial tone. And
then a different voice said, “You can hang up the phone now,
Cecil.” And I said, “OK, Lacy. Fine.”

We’ve
just received word that the School Board has rejected the PTA’s
request for more transparency in long term strategic planning. The
president of the School Board and enormous glowing cloud cited School
District Code 25.3b-2, which states 


as well as Code 17.2a, which explicitly defines the powers of the
School Board President as 


– and that’s exactly what it says. It even has that reverb effect
when you read it.

PTA
president Moreno, knowing he had very little leverage in his request
for power of legislative review, decided to change his strategy into
a request for forgiveness from the angry pulsing cloud. Animals began
falling from the sky with heavy thumps and splats and splashes. The
Great Lawn has grown dark with carcasses and shadows as PTA officers
run in search of cover.

I’ve
heard from my friend, Diane Creighton, that she huddled underneath
the Lee Marvin statue, and that the lifelike bronze form of our
nation’s greatest living actor has done a tremendous job of blocking
the various black bears and nurse sharks and ostriches falling so
violently to Earth.

The
Glow Cloud has spread wide across the sky, blotting out important
things like spy satellites and helicopters, as well as unimportant
things like the moon and the illusions of mountains near the horizon.
From right here in the studio, I can see the darkness spreading. It
looks like this is as good a time as any to take you to the weath– 


What
was that? What the…was that?

[“

” by 

]

The
School Board and the PTA have reached a compromise. The PTA’s earlier
grievance that long-term curriculum and school district planning
lacked transparency has been heard. And while the Glow Cloud and the
School Board could not offer complete openness and inclusion in all
school district decisions for the PTA, they could offer to stop
dropping dead animals on everyone, if the PTA never mentioned
transparency or questioned authority again.

PTA
president Moreno agreed to these terms, panting, “Yeah. Oh, yeah,
sure. Never again. Please, just let us be. Please!”

Then
he breathlessly repeated “ALL HAIL, ALL HAIL, ALL HAIL,” as thick
residue of some fallen beast dripped slowly off his swollen face and
onto his torn shirt.

Diane
Creighton, safe beneath the Lee Marvin statue, asked, “Perhaps a
PTA liaison on the School Board would be…” but Moreno jumped in.

“No.
No liaison. We are fine, Diane, we must give praise!”

And
Diane didn’t say a word. But she said a lot. Moreno did not
acknowledge the look in Diane’s eyes.

Steve
Carlsberg then added…oh, I don’t know, it doesn’t matter. I’m sure
he added 

.
Steve always does.

I
hope you are all safe, dear listeners. I hope you are all OK. I know
I am safe.

Sadly,
though, I am not OK. The falling animal carcasses collapsed a small
section of the outer wall around our radio station. No one was
injured, but it was the wall where my desk was. My new painting. I
had spent so long on it. I mean, I can replace it, but…it’s just
that. It’s…just that it brought me such happiness, such a reason to
get up, such little joys.

Like,
it’s not hard to find images of Carlos, we have 

,
with its phones and screens and psychic projections, and…but that
picture [

]
it was art. Creation. Destroyed. I mean, I can paint another. I can.
I can just paint another.

It’ll
be fine. Just an excuse to do some fun painting. I’m glad we’re all
OK. Diane’s OK, even Steve, I’m glad he’s OK too, I can just paint…

It’s
fine.

Yup.
Everything’s fine.

Stay
tuned next for the quiz show Ask Me Another But I’ll Never Talk, You
Fiend, I’ll Never Talk. It’s our most popular new program.

And
as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Bonus Episode 1 - Minutes


Minutes from the Community College Faculty Meeting, by Ashley Lierman. 

The following are the minutes from the Night Vale Community College faculty meeting.

Meeting facilitator was Dr. Vidor Szabo.

Meeting secretary was Joshua White.

Dr. Szabo called to order the regular meeting of the faculty of Night Vale Community College at 3:00pm on November 1st.

Mr. White conducted a roll call; the following were present:

Attendees were advised to insert earplugs. Mr. White then read the minutes from the September meeting. Professor Levine collapsed in a stiff heap, with severe bleeding at the eyes and mouth, due to an improperly formed plug seal in her left ear canal. She was removed for medical treatment. The minutes were approved as read.

President Sultan greeted and thanked attendees, and congratulated all faculty on the successful fall semester. She described recent fundraising efforts for upcoming development projects. The most notable gift has been a generous, but ultimately detrimental donation of thousands of rabbits from proud alumna Mrs. Sylvia Wickersham, who has been replaced by a lizard – and which lizard is now in police custody.

President Sultan stopped mid-sentence, and was silent for several seconds. As the president is a smooth fist-sized river rock, faculty were initially confused as to why she was quiet. It turned out President Sultan was staring at a fixed point in midair. She suddenly began asking, “What 

 that? What is that 

? Why would anyone 

 that?” in a small, childlike voice.

Faculty began to shift and turn in their seats, but saw nothing.

This continued until it was decided that the president had nothing further to offer, and Dr. Szabo picked up the president and placed her back in her terrarium.

(A): 

Dr. Laredo, who took over the Freshman Seminar two years ago, because of Dr. Joel Eisneberg’s extended medical leave, described a number of revisions to the program, which she hopes to implement with the faculty’s support, including standardizing grading rubrics, working carefully with the library to develop some non-violent literacy programs, possibly reassessing the requirement of plague masks for all freshman, and increasing focus on real-world career skills like running, hiding, and covering their faces with their hands, moaning 

 quietly.

(B): 

Dr. Hernandez provided an update on facility’s progress with the unending hallway situation. Apparently the hallway is now fully finite in breadth. And while it still appears to be infinite in length, the fact that it no longer swallows light itself indicates that this is merely due to the limits of human perception, and the hallway does now possess and end. Somewhere.

However, according to the Director of Facilities Services, all available measuring equipment is still inadequate to chart the length of the hallway, and the readings that have been made indicate that it would take at least six human lifetimes to traverse the full length of the hallway. So, ultimately, the distinction is negligible.

Administrators and faculty are still advised not to schedule classes on the second floor of Earth Sciences until the situation is resolved, unless class size exceeds the available facilities, and students have been cautioned to bring enough food and water to last them the rest of their lives.

©: 

Dr. Hertzwell announced that as of registration for the spring semester, while the minimum grade point average of 3.0 and SAT score of 1100 have not been changed, students are now no longer required to be fully human to enroll in honors courses. Dr. Hertzwell applauded this progressive change, but lamented that it took so long to make it happen.

Faculty advisers of students who are arthropods, malevolent spirits, or tangible dream-people should recommend application to these advanced courses.

(D): 

Professor Gwozdecke reported that public safety officers have completed their preliminary investigation of the repeated and unexplained fires in the main computer lab. The officers suspect that cause to be arson but, as Professor Gwozdecke pointed out, they are liars. Filthy, disgusting, pestilential liars, who should be embarrassed to tell those kinds of lies where people can hear their crazy nonsense. And, at the very least, they should all be fired. Meaning, 

. But also meaning 

. Meaning, 

. But also meaning 

. “At the very least,” she added.

She then set a rug on fire with her thoughts.

Dr. Szabo asked the assembled to welcome Dr. Mohini Buqar, who joined the faculty as an Assistant Professor of Secret English at the beginning of the spring semester. Dr. Buqar, sweating profusely with a fixed grin that showed far too many of her teeth, greeted the faculty and briefly introduced herself and her interests in a shaky, indistinct voice that gradually climbed in pitch toward a shriek.

Dr. Buqar’s doctoral dissertation compared Shakespeare’s unproduced and unpublished play, Mirth Forest, with elements of Chaucer’s unwritten childhood daydreams. And she enjoys ballroom dance and owns two Siberian huskies. She is teaching two sections of Survey of Secret British Literature, featuring Emily Bronte’s epic novel that no one has ever heard of, The Flippancy of Clouds.

: James Crawford-Rothwell

: Dr. Crawford-Rothwell detailed the resolutions made at the most recent meeting of the Assessment Committee. He reminded faculty that all instructors of general education courses must, at the end of the semester, submit a summary of work, one sample assignment, and detailed blood type information for each student, including a full flavor profile.

He distributed to the faculty the revised rubrics for critical thinking, pain endurance, global awareness, and seeing the unseen and unholy.

: Dr. Stein asked whether human test subjects could be submitted as a sample assignment. Further debate ensued, with some arguing that human subjects constitute laboratory equipment, and others pointing out the impracticality of being unable to submit them electronically.

Dr. Crawford-Rothwell promised that the committee would discuss the issue in their next meeting.

The green cabinet that shakes and whistles, having consumed – ahead of schedule – the full crate of live guinea pigs provided for it to eat during the meeting, emitted a bass hum, and then opened to loose a tendril of pure, pulsating, hate-filled darkness, which encircled and then devoured Dr. Richter, dragging her back into its unknowable depths on the hollow boom of its closing doors.

The meeting was suspended for the assembled to flee for their lives, and reconvened in furtive whispers in an unlit basement room.

Dr. Bell recommended that the “Conclusions and Outcomes” component of critical thinking be changed to end in priority order, rather than in order of priority. The motion was debated and passed with 19 for, 2 against, 2 abstaining, 3 absent and/or presumed dead.

 Form search committees for replacement full-time Professor of Nursing

 Chandra Mabassa

Faculty and staff took a short break between presentations to assess the condition of the wounded. Some used the time to smoke a final cigarette while crying. Others gathered around the coffee maker to casually discuss the weather.

[“Home” by Theo Adler]

 Pamela Kingsworth

 Ms. Kingsworth hastily set up a computer and attached projector, which were retrieved from the original meeting room at no small risk to life and sanity. She unveiled concepts for a new logo and slogans, developed in meetings with a marketing firm. The logo is a black and white but shockingly graphic woodcut of an ethnically diverse group of students devouring the entrails of a wild boar. Behind them is a map of the world with dozens of countries X’d out.

Slogan 1 reads: “There’s no excuse for not getting a quality education. You should feel ashamed, and so should your ancestors.”

Slogan 2 reads: “Find yourself here, with no memory of the previous week.”

Slogan 3 reads: “Ketamine hydrochloride.”

If the slogans are approved by the faculty, the college community will vote on them at the next open campus meeting, to be held on Monday, February 23rd.

 Dr. Long began vomiting and shuddering uncontrollably near the end of Ms. Kingsworth’s presentation, although this was found to be unrelated.

Dr. Szabo remarked on the exceptional artistry of the logo, and insisted on taking a picture with his mobile phone on behalf of Professor Galen in the Art Department, who was unable to attend today’s meeting. The phone produced a small cloud of foul-smelling crystals from its camera lens, and then imploded.

Dr. Bell questioned whether the reference to “ancestors” in Slogan 1 was culturally insensitive. Ms. Kingsworth assured the faculty that the advertising firm understood the importance of diversity to the college community, and the inclusivity of the slogans as well as their market impact had been thoroughly researched.

Drs. Crawford-Rothwell and Szabo debated the issue. No conclusion was reached, although Ms. Kingsworth agreed to raise the issue with the firm as the process continued.

Dr. Bell asked Ms. Kingsworth for the name of the advertising firm the college is consulting. Ms. Kingsworth was silent for seven full minutes, and then proceeded to giggle for the remainder of the meeting.

Dr. Szabo distributed ballots for approval or disapproval of the slogans. Additional copies will be mailed to each department to be filled out by faculty members who were unable to attend today’s meeting. No one will actually mail them – it will just happen, quietly, while no one is looking.

The ballots should be completed and returned to the Office of College Relations, where they will be discarded unread.

 Complete and return slogan approval ballot

 All faculty

 Blood

 Blood

 Blood

Distant screeches, perhaps a crow of some kind.

Blood

 Cost/benefit analysis for expansion of Student Center

 Blood

 Robert Hernandez

 Dr. Hernandez announced that tax information and forms for college employees for this year’s tax season will be available online, through the Employee Self-Service area of the college website.

He demonstrated, via projector, the location of the forms by navigating the website. From the college homepage, employees should go to the Faculty and Staff Portal, then to the Employee Self-Service link under the Human Resources header, then scroll down the page to the section marked Payroll, and click on the link reading Tax Forms.

Users will be shown a picture of a face. It will be a familiar face, but not one they will be able to comprehend or remember. They must maintain silent eye contact with this face. Do not blink. Do not speak. Breathe, but slowly, and without purpose. After several seconds, perhaps minutes, the face will contort into a terrifying grimace as a cacophonous scream fills the room, echoing down the halls, freezing you in terror.

Then, you can download the appropriate form.

 Dr. al-Anizi asked whether the forms would still be distributed in paper form. Dr. Hernandez confirmed that they would, and the online and paper forms would be identical.

Mr. Long mentioned that he thought computers might be illegal – but even if they’re not, they require licenses. He asked if anyone had up-to-date computer licenses for the college. Everyone else urgently shushed him, their eyes dashing left and right, fingers to their tight lips.

Dr. Mills asked if any help was available for faculty and staff members who had forgotten their login information for the Employee Self-Service area. Dr. Hernandez advised him to direct his query to the Help Desk, or to click on the link below the login form and answer the security question.

“You get one attempt,” Dr. Hernandez said. “One,” he said again. “

. You get 

 attempt.”

He repeated this for several minutes, the register of his voice growing lower and lower.

 Bury an owl feather, six human finger bones, and a mirror in a shallow hole at the base of the largest rock in the mountains, beneath the light of a quarter-full moon. Tell no one. Not even your family. The same night, place a stone under your tongue and wind a ribbon around your mouth until you can make no sound. Sleep. You will dream of a tall, worried man, holding a rope. He will not speak to you, but he will point toward a doorway you do not recognize. It will be very 

 dark, and a faint cool breeze will blow forth, smelling faintly of copper and water.

 Robert Hernandez

The faculty met eyes, placed hands upon arms upon shoulders. Dr. Szabo, weeping, adjourned the meeting at an unknown time, as time is subjective and confusing.

In the flickering candlelight, their synchronous breath were a breezy metronome, marking the only time any of them could possibly understand.

The light went out. And in the darkness, there was a discomforting silence, followed by even more discomforting scratching sounds.

Minutes submitted by: Joshua White

Minutes approved by: The Survivors, presumably

Bonus Episode 4 - Pamela Winchell



In response to the “murderer on the loose” situation, Mayor Dana
Cardinal has sent her official Night Vale Director of Emergency Press
Conferences to issue an emergency press conference. Unfortunately,
the Press Conference Gazebo is currently on fire…due to routine
maintenance. So this press conference will be held right here in our
studio. Please welcome former mayor Pamela Winchell.


Hello, members of the press corps. Hello, people of the public.
Hello, visiting dignitaries, wandering spirits, and hidden royalty
disguised as local farmers due to troubles in their home country.

I
would like to start this emergency press conference with a joke.

OK.
So.

What
did the dog say to the bartender?


What?


“Death is just a tone of soil – but then, my friend, so is life!”

Hold
any laughter for the end of the presentation, please!

Citizens,
there is a murderer among us, striking at us from the shadows!

Yeah,
so what? This morning, my wrist was sore! I don’t know why! I woke
up, and it was sore! Does anyone know why? If you know why, please
notify a town official. I think it’s probably a joint thing.

Maybe
you’ll all make it through today. Maybe you won’t. I mean, what am I,
some kind of expert on 

?
I’m 

. I don’t
think. Well, I 

.
You know, it 

 been
a long time since college, and I don’t remember what it was that I
studied. I mean…plants? Are plants a thing?


Pure fiction.


OK, not that then.

It is
important, in times of emergency, to remain calm. This won’t keep you
safe. Whatever was going to happen to you, will happen to you anyway.
But you will be less irritating to those around you as it happens. I
mean, people usually make such a fuss and a bunch of noise when in
mortal danger, and some of us are trying to read right now, thank
you!

Maybe
the reading is why my wrist is sore! Ah! I– I– I should have
stretched more before doing something that takes this much hard
physical labor.

Mayor
Cardinal asked me to come to speak to you. I have come to tentatively
respect Mayor Cardinal, although I maintain a slight suspicion that
she may be a number of super-sentient lizards in a meat costume. I
have the same suspicion toward all people, including myself.

Anyway,
Mayor Cardinal asked me to relay some important emergency info to all
of you, so here it is:

On the
edge of the known universe is a campfire, and around it are three
figures, indistinct and huddling – refugees from the universe
before our own. They will never be able to return home. And,
metaphorically, neither will any of us. We are all, metaphorically,
huddled around a campfire at the edge of the known universe. But in
literal terms, only those three figures are. And no one knows their
names. And no one ever will.

The
Night Vale municipal government hopes that this emergency information
was helpful to you. As always, if you are in need of assistance,
please don’t bother me. Thank you, Cecil, I will now step into the
circle I drew in the sand with my big toe and vanish in a flash of
green smoke.


Oh. Well, thank you very much!

Annnnnnnnd
yup! There she goes, flash of green smoke. Looks like she still has a
little bit of that mayoral power left inside her.

Bonus Episode 5 - Excerpt From the Novel



The history of the town of Night Vale is long and complicated,
reaching back thousands of years to the earliest indigenous people in
the desert. We will cover none of it here. Suffice it to say that it
is a town like many towns – with a City Hall, and a bowling alley
(the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex), and a diner
(the Moonlite All-Nite Diner), and a supermarket (Ralph’s). And, of
course, a community radio station, reporting all the news that we are
allowed to hear.


On all sides, it is surrounded by empty desert flatness. It is much
like your town, perhaps. It might be more like your town than you’d
like to admit.


It is a friendly desert community, where the sun is hot, the moon is
beautiful, and mysterious lights pass overhead while we all pretend
to sleep.


Welcome to Night Vale.


Pawn shops in Night Vale work like this: first, you need an item to
pawn. To get this, you need a lot of time behind you. Years spent
living and existing, until you’ve reached a point where you believe
that you exist, and that a physical item exists, and that the concept
of ownership exists. And that, improbable as all those are, these
absurd beliefs line up in a way that result in you owning an item.


Good job! Nicely done!


Second, once you believe you own an item, you must reach a point
where you need money more than you need the item. This is the easiest
step – just own an item, and own a body with needs, and wait.


The only pawn shop in the town of Night Vale is run by the very young
Jackie Fierro. It has no name, but if you need it, you will know
where it is. This knowledge will come suddenly, often while you are
in the shower. You will collapse, surrounded by a bright glowing
blackness, and you will find yourself on your hands and knees, the
warm water running over you, and you will know where the pawn shop
is. You will smell must, and soap, and feel a stab of panic about how
alone you are.


It will be like most showers you’ve taken.


Before you can offer Jackie your item, there will first be some hand
washing, which is why there are bowls of purified water throughout
the shop. You need to chant a little as you wash your hands. You, of
course, should 

 chant when you wash your hands. It is
only hygienic.


When you have been properly purified, you will lay the item on the
counter, and Jackie will consider it. Jackie will have her feet up on
the counter. She will lean back.


“Eleven dollars,” she will say. She will always say “Eleven
dollars.”


You will not respond. You are, ultimately, unnecessary to this
process. You are, ultimately, unnecessary.


“No, no,” she will say, waving her hand. And then she will name
her actual price. Usually it is money. Sometimes it is other things.
Sometimes it is dreams, experiences, visions.


Then you will die – but only for a little while.


The item will be given a price tag, $11. Everything in the pawn shop
is that price, no matter what she loaned you for it.


Once you are no longer dead, she will give you a ticket, which later
you will be able to exchange for the item. Or, at any time, you may
look at the ticket and remember the item. Remembering the item is
free.

 are leaving this story now. 

 were only an
example. And it is probably safer for 

 not to be in this
story anyway.


Jackie Fierro squinted out the window at the parking lot. There was
no one coming. She was closing soon. Relatively speaking, she was
always closing soon, and also always just opening.


Beyond the window was the parking lot, and beyond that the desert,
and beyond that the sky (mostly void, partially stars). Layered from
her vantage, it was all distance, equally unreachable from her post
at the counter.


She had recently turned 19. She had been recently-19 for as long as
she could remember. The pawn shop had been hers for a long time.
Centuries, maybe. Clocks and calendars don’t work in Night Vale. Time
itself doesn’t work.


For all her years as the newly-19 owner of the pawn shop, she left
the shop only when it was closed, and then only to her apartment,
where she sat with her feet up on the coffee table, taking in the
community radio and the local cable news. Based on what the news told
her, the outside world seemed a dangerous place. There was always
some world-ending cataclysm threatening Night Vale. Feral dogs, a
sentient glowing cloud with the ability to control minds (although
the Glow Cloud had become less threatening since its election to the
local school board), old oak doors that led to a strange desert
otherworld, where the current mayor had been trapped for months…it
seemed safer to not have friends or hobbies. Just sit at work, head
down, doing her job, and then sit at home, glass after glass of
orange juice, radio on, safe from anything that might disrupt her
routine.


Her days were spent in silence. Mostly void, partially thought. Some
days she would re-catalog her inventory. Other days she would clean
the shelves. Every day she would sit and think. She would try to
think about the day she took over the store. There 

 have
been a day like that, but she could not think of the specifics. She
had been doing this for decades. She was very young. Both of these
were true at the same time.


She knew college was a thing 19 year olds did. She knew being
unemployed in a difficult job market and living at home was a thing
other 19 year olds did. She was content doing neither of those, so
she continued on and on and on at the pawn shop.


She understood the world and her place in it. She understood nothing.
The world and her place in it 

 nothing, and she understood
that.


Because of the lack of working time in Night Vale, she went off her
gut feeling about when the shop should close. When the feeling came,
it came, and the doors had to be locked, removed from their frames,
and safely hidden. The feeling came. She swung her feet off the
counter. A decent day.


Old Woman Josie, who lived out by the Car Lot, had come in with a
great number of cheap plastic flamingos. She had carried them in a
large canvas sack, and emptied them onto the counter like loose
change.


“It is not for myself that I give up these little ones,” said Old
Woman Josie, addressing a bare wall several feet to the right of
Jackie in a strong, formal voice, making the occasional sweeping
gesture with her palm, “but for the future.”


Josie stopped, her palm still out.


Jackie decided the speech was over. “All right, man. I’ll give
you…eleven dollars,” she said.


Old Woman Josie tightened her eyes at the bare wall.


“Oookaayyy…” Jackie softened, prodding at one of the flamingos
and looking at its weak plastic belly. “Tell you what. I’ll give
you a good night’s sleep.”


Old Woman Josie shrugged. “I’ll take it.”


A good night’s sleep was a wildly generous offer. The flamingos were
worthless, but there were 

 of them, and Jackie couldn’t
help herself. She never refused an item.


“Be careful not to touch those directly,” Josie said, after she
was finished being dead.


Using shop rags, Jackie laid the flamingos out, side by side, on a
shelf, each one tagged with a single handwritten $11 price tag.


“Most things shouldn’t be touched anyway,” Jackie thought.


“Goodbye, dear,” said Josie, taking the ticket that Jackie had
filled out. “Come by sometime and talk to the angels. They’ve been
asking about you.”


The angels lived with Old Woman Josie in her small tract home, whose
tract no longer stood, leaving it alone at the edge of town. The
angels did chores for her, and Josie made a modest income selling
items they had touched. No one understood why the angels lived with
her. Very little was understood about the angels; some things were.


Of course, 

. It is illegal to consider
their existence, or even to give them a dollar when they forget bus
money and start hovering around the Ralph’s asking for change.


The great hierarchy of angels is a foolish dream, and anyway is
forbidden knowledge to Night Vale citizens. All of the angels in
Night Vale lived with Josie out by the car lot. There are no angels
in Night Vale.


Around the middle of the day, Jackie had acquired a car. It was a
Mercedes, only a few years old, and offered with urgency by a young
man wearing a gray pinstriped business suit stained with dirt. It was
impressive how he got the car onto the counter, but there is a way
these things are done, and it had to go on the counter.


He washed his hands, and chanted. The water went brown and red.


She settled on an offer of five dollars, talking him down from
eleven, and he laughed as he took the money and the ticket.


“Haha it’s not funny at all,” he explained, laughing.


And, finally, a woman named Diane Crayton arrived late in the
afternoon – almost closing time, according to Jackie’s gut.


“Can I help you?” Jackie asked. She was unsure why she asked
this, as Jackie rarely greeted people who came in the store.


Jackie knew who Diane was. She organized PTA fundraisers. Diane
sometimes came by to distribute fliers that said things like “Night
Vale High School PTA Fund Drive! Help give kids the
municipally-approved education they deserve! Your support is
mandatory, and appreciated!”


Diane, in Jackie’s mind, looked just like a woman who would be an
active PTA mom, with her kind face and comfortable clothing. She also
thought Diane looked like a woman who would be a loan officer, with
her conservative makeup choices and serious demeanor. She 


look like a pharmacist, if she were to ever wear the standard white
coat, gas mask, and hip waders.


She looked like a lot of things to Jackie. Mostly, she looked like a
person lost in both a place and a moment.


Diane took a handkerchief from her purse. Without changing her upward
distant expression, she wept a single tear onto the cloth. “I’d
like to offer this,” she said, finally looking at Jackie.


Jackie considered the handkerchief. The tear would dry soon. “Eleven
dollars. That’s the deal,” she said.


“I’ll take it,” Diane said. Her loose-hanging arms were now drawn
up near her purse.


Jackie took the tear-dabbed handkerchief and gave Diane her ticket
and the money. After her brief death, Diane thanked her and hurried
out of the shop.


Jackie tagged the tear with it’s $11 price tag and placed it on a
shelf.


So, a decent day.


Jackie flipped the sign on the door to CLOSED, her hand touching the
window, leaving its ghost upon the glass. A hand raised to say
“stop,” or “come here,” or “hello!” or “help!” or,
maybe, only “I am here. This hand, at least, is real.”


She looked down to adjust the items on the counter, and when she
looked up, the man was there. He was wearing a tan jacket, and
holding a deerskin suitcase. He had normal human features. He had
arms and legs. He might have had hair, or maybe was wearing a hat?
Everything was normal.


“Hello,” he said. “My name is Everett.”


Jackie screamed.


The man was perfectly normal.


She screamed.


“I’m sorry,” he said. “Are you closed?”


“No, that’s okay. No. Can I help you?”


“Yes, I hope so,” he said.


There was buzzing coming from somewhere. His mouth?


“I have an item I would very much like to pawn.”


“I…” she said, and waved her hand to indicate everything she
might have said next.


He nodded at her hand. “Thank you for your help. Have I introduced
myself?”


“No.”


“Ah. I apologize. My name is Emmett.”


They shook hands. Her hand continued to shake after he let go.


“Yes, well,” he said, “here is the item.”


He set a small slip of paper on the counter. On it, written in dull
smeared pencil, were the words:


The handwriting was shaky, and the pencil had been pressed down hard.


She couldn’t stop staring at it, although she didn’t know what about
it was interesting.


“Interesting,” she said.


“No, not very,” said the Man in the Tan Jacket. The man washed
his hands and quietly chanted, and Jackie forced herself to lean back
and put her feet on the counter. There is a way these things are
done.


She looked a few times at the man’s face, but she found she forgot it
the moment she stopped looking.


“Eleven dollars,” she said.


The man hummed, and other small voices joined him – apparently from
within the deerskin suitcase.


“Where did this come from?” she asked. “Why are you offering it
to me? What would I do with it” Her voice was high and cracked. It
did not sound like her at all.


The man was now harmonizing with the voices from his suitcase. He did
not seem to register her questions.


“No, no, I’m sorry,” she said, fully aware of but unable to stop
her poor negotiating technique. “My mistake. Thirty dollars, and an
idea about time.”


“Done,” he said, smiling.

 that a smile?


She gave him the $30 and told him her idea about time.


“That is very interesting!” he said. “I’ve never thought of it
that way. Generally, I don’t think at all.”


Then he died.


She usually used this time to finish up the paperwork, get the ticket
ready. She did nothing. She clutched the slip of paper in her hand.


He wasn’t dead anymore.


“I’m sorry, your ticket.”


“There’s no need,” he said, still 

 smiling. She
couldn’t get a good enough look at his face to tell.


“No, your ticket! There is a way these things are done.”


She scrawled out a ticket with the information tickets always had: a
random number (12,739), the quality of light at the time of
transaction (fine), the general feeling of the weather outside
(looming), her current thoughts on the future (looming, but fine),
and a quick sketch of what she thought hearts 

 look
like, instead of the pulsing lumps of straw and clay that grow,
cancer-like, into our chests when we turn nine years old.


He took the ticket as she thrust it at him, and then, thanking her,
turned to leave.


“Goodbye!” she said.


“

,” said the
paper.


Goodbye, waved the man, saying nothing.


“Wait!” she said, “You never told me your name!”


“Oh, you’re right,” he said, hand on door. “My name is Elliott.
A pleasure to make your acquaintance.”


The door swung open, and shut. Jackie held the slip of paper in her
hand, unsure for the first time in however long her life had been
what to do next. She felt that her routine, unbroken for decades, had
been disrupted, that something had gone differently. But she also had
no idea why she felt that. It was just a slip of paper, just clutched
in her hand. Just that.


She finished her paperwork. On the line that said 

,
she stopped. She could not remember his name. She couldn’t even
remember his face. She looked down at the piece of paper.


She looked up to get a glimpse of him out the window, just to jostle
her stuck memory. From the counter, she could see the Man in the Tan
Jacket outside. He was running out to the desert. She could just
barely see him at the edge of the parking lot’s radius of light. His
arms were swinging wildly, his suitcase swinging a long. His legs
were flailing. Great puffs of sand kicked up behind him. His head
thrown back, sweat visible running down his neck, even from where she
sat – the kind of run that was 

 something, and not


.


Then he left the faint edge of the light, and was gone.

Bonus Episode 6 - The Investigators (Preview)


 Hi, I’m Joseph Fink. What you’re
about to hear are two clips from our last touring live show, The
Investigators, which is now available, right now, for sale at


,
and will be available on iTunes soon (or it might be already,
depending on when you’re listening to this). This is over two hours
of brand new Night Vale with live music and a ton of guest stars,
plus ten bonus tracks of guest stars that we couldn’t fit into the
main recording. So, even if you saw this show live, there is a ton of
stuff in here you have never heard. Also available on Bandcamp and
iTunes, our previous four live recordings and the Welcome to Night
Vale audio book. Check those out. And we will see you with our brand
new live script Ghost Stories in the U.S. in July, and in Europe in
October. I can’t wait. Enjoy.

And
now an update on last week’s power outages. The Night Vale Electric
Utility announced today that there may be more power outages in
coming weeks. This time, due to sadness.

“We’ve
just been sad this week,” the Electric Utility said. “Not for any
reason, just…sometimes we get sad. What do we need a reason for?
Last week we were feeling vengeful, so…power outages. This week
we’re feeling sad, and we’re going to continue expressing ourselves
through the medium of power outages.”

Now,
power outages were, of course, certified by the Supreme Court as a
protected form of free speech in the 1973 case of the Hayworth
Electric Company vs the Hayworth Hospital. And the court stated that
reasonable causes for a power outage include celebration of a special
someone’s birthday, expression of undirected anger at an intransigent
political system, and periods of just feeling sad for no reason.

But
the Night Vale Electric Utility would like me to remind you that
power outages are no excuse not to pay your electric bill. I mean,
electricity is, after all, a privilege, not a right. Failure to pay
your electric bill may result in localized lightning storms, shrouded
figures standing silently in the back of familiar TV shows, and gout.
So…

So.
A spokesperson from the Sheriff’s Secret Police has
just handed me a note explaining that I am not required to attend the
murder mystery dinner theater, as I was here in my booth broadcasting
during the time of the murder.


Oh. Um, they just handed me another note, but it reads, “We don’t
know where that scientist is. Please let the scientist know he is
required to attend.”


Now, look. Carlos has been busy all day in his science
lab…science-ing. If, 

 he were even able to leave the lab,
he would certainly not just murder a stranger…without stopping by
the radio station to say hello to me first!


I’m gonna call Carlos right now.


Hey, you! I was just thinking of you.


Hi, I’m so sorry to bother you, but I’ve received some bad news from
the Secret Police.


Ugh. I knew this would eventually happen. They discovered that my
team of scientists is studying geology, right? I know, I know, it’s
illegal. And, as Francis Scott Key wrote in his famous poem, “Rocks
are just rocks! Mind your own business, pal!” But I find geology so
scientifically interesting, I cannot 


that they just– 



No no no, it’s not that. It’s…there’s been a murder, and the
Sheriff’s Secret Police need you to attend the mandatory murder
mystery dinner theater.


Oh. But that is great news! Um, I love dinner theaters. I, um, I took
some theater in college, you know, so I can play, like, a bunch of
different roles.


Oh, really?


Yeah, okay. So the part that 


wants to play in a murder mystery dinner theater, you know who it is?
It’s the butler.


Oh.


Because the butler gets to wear pastel tuxedos and carry this pet
rat. Ooh! And I can do, like, a 


really good snooty British accent. Ahem.

 “'Ey! I would never
murder anyone! Might I perhaps take your coat, sir?”


I don’t know if that’s really a 


accent.


Babe, it is.


Oh, is it?


Yeah. Mm-hmm.


Okay. All right.


So, like, another great role in the murder mystery dinner theater is
the rich heiress. Ah! The rich heiress! Um, okay. She gets to wear
this like tight black dress, and pearls, and a feathered boa (which
you know look amazing in).


I do.


I do. So, the rich heiress, of course, she 


like the murderer, because she always carries around this old
bloodstained axe, but that’s the thing! She only carries the ax
because her mother was the owner of the world’s biggest axe
manufacturing conglomerate, and their family made a great fortune by
chopping up people and taking all their money. Anyway, the rich
heiress has this glorious and smooth Romanian accent.


Please know that I would never murder anyone. Now go get me another
drink doll. Chop chop! I’m kidding. 


Ohhhh! Now, I’ve never been to Romania…


Babe, it’s a dead-on accent.


Oh, okay. All right. Now, listen, Carlos, I’m actually really
surprised to hear this side of you. I mean, I had no idea that you
were such a theater nerd!


Yeah! Like, I’m a scientist, sure, but that’s not 


I am, you know?


Yeah?


Like, getting to act in a murder mystery dinner theater would give me
the chance to be…


a scientist anymore, you know? Like, um, like, like I could be
anyone! Like…like a train conductor, and I’d shout “All aboard!”
Um, or a pizza maker, and I would shout, “All aboard, and it’s a
pizza!” Um, or, I don’t know, like, oh! Like a writer! And I’d
shout “I am alone, so terribly alone!”


Carlos, I– I think the idea is that everybody is just themselves,
so that way the police can easily scan the crowd and find out who
looks the most guilty. I mean, I don’t think that murder mystery
dinner theater is ever supposed to be 

!
They are grueling exercises in abrupt and arbitrary justice.


You know who I want to play? I want to play a librarian.


Oh, I don’t think that’s a very– 



“You seem to be very interested in young adult sci-fi adventure
novels. Might I recommend 

 by


?”

Whoo!
That felt really good.


It sounded good.


Thank you. But I would really, really need to work with the director,
you know, on how to get the pincers and all the long hairy legs just
right. Ooh! Ooh! And we would 


need to rig up a pulley system so that I could fly around the room
and then descend from the ceiling like a normal librarian.


Oh! Um, Carlos, I was just handed another not from the Secret Police
that reads: “No more, please! Tell him he doesn’t have to come to
the dinner theater at all!”


…But I wanted to come.


Aww.


Um, eh, it’s no bother.


Well, we will just have to put on our own murder mystery dinner
theater this weekend.


Okay. Um, I love you.


All right. I love you too.


Ooh! Ooh! You want to hear my Steve Carlsberg impression?


Goodbye, Carlos.


Okie-doke.

, two hours of brand new Night Vale. And go to


 and click on Live Shows to see our upcoming
tour dates.

Bonus Episode 7 - The Investigators on iTunes


 Hey! So, our newest live
recording, The Investigators, was released on Bandcamp recently, and
we said it would be released on iTunes “soon.” Well, as of today
– as of this very moment, in fact – that “soon” has become
“now.” It is available on iTunes now. Over two hours of new Night
Vale live material, featuring something like 15 guest stars and live
music Disparition and Eliza Rickman, available right now on iTunes
and still available at 

.

To
celebrate, here is a clip from The Investigators. It is one of the
bonus tracks of the recording, featuring Wil Wheaton as Earl Harlan.
Enjoy.


Let’s have a look now at the Community Calendar.


Wednesday
evening, Night Vale’s most popular restaurant, Tourniquet, will be
hosting a special chef’s table dinner. To learn more about this, we
have Tourniquet’s sous-chef, Earl Harlan, right now on the phone
with us. Thanks for joining us, Earl!

 Thank you, Cecil! Well, the annual chef’s table
dinner is a special night, when our executive chef, LaShawn Mason,
personally curates and prepares a five-course tasting menu. It’s
500 dollars prix fixe, and it’s limited to only 13 attendees, so it
will be an intimate and a unique experience.


Chef
Mason wants to share some brand new dishes he’s been working on in
his test kitchen. He hand-delivers each dish to the diners.


 And
then… he lingers…slowly over each diner, as they eat. Explaining
every single bite, as he touches their chins…gently with his rough
thumbs…and his soft…moist palms…lifting their mandibles up and
down…to help them through the first stage…of the human digestive
process. He also matches his heartbeat with theirs. Everyone…at the
chef’s table…will share a heartbeat.


That sounds very posh!

 Have you ever listened to a heartbeat, Cecil?


Oh sure. Yeah, I can actually hear my own right now, very loudly in
my headphones, let’s see. Po-pom, po-pom, po-pom-pom-pom-pom-po…Pom
pom pom pom pom pom pom pom pom popopopopopom,
pommmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.

 That sounds terrifying.


It is!

 Anyway, this year’s dinner will center around
quail.


Ooh!

 Chef Mason recently rediscovered the joy of quail
meat, while on a spiritual retreat underneath his own bed. He was
there for weeks, curled into a fetal position, alternating between
screaming and crying, and clenching his eyes and teeth tightly,
because he is 


into meditation these days.


During
the retreat, he found several quail living in his box spring
mattress. And they were his only friends. He named them Ann, George,
Latimer, Kaska, and Junior, and Friday. They all kept each other
company in the cold dark night. And later when Chef Mason got hungry,
he ate them all. It was hard to lose such good friends. But they were
so delicious, he wanted to share that flavor with Night Vale.


So, will you be at the dinner, Earl?

 Oh yes! Yes, I will wake up that morning, and I
will stare at myself in the mirror repeating, “You can do this,
Earl. 

can do
this, Earl. You can 


this, Earl.” Until my reflection says, “You’re right.” And
then we’ll brush each others’ teeth, and trim each others’
mustaches, and comb each others’ hair…


Awwww!

 …and then step through the mirror and once again
switch places in each others’ mirrored world for the day.


Ah!

 I’ll drive my car slowly into the parking lot of
Tourniquet, and then I’ll call my son to tell him I love him. And
that I remembered his name, which I can do most days.


Oh!

 And then I’ll sigh heavily, and I’ll put on my
tuque and my jacket, and do my job.


Well, it is such a blessing to have a career that you love! So, what
can the diners expect at this rare culinary event?

 Well, we will start with quail salad with a fig
and orange milk dressing.


Mm!

 Followed by a large amount of quail eggs dropped
from the ceiling. Then pasta made entirely from beaks.


Huh.

 Then the main course, in which I’ll use a
bullhorn to recite instructions for gutting and cleaning, while each
diner is given a live quail and a brick.


Ohhh! Mmmm! Oh, It says – your press release says that dinner
begins at 7:30.

 7:30 PM on the dot! Now this is one of the coolest
parts of the whole night. It’s right at 7:30, when all of the
diners from last year’s event will finally be released from the
kitchen…and sent back to their old lives.


Awww. Well that sounds fun.

 Oh the sounds. There…are so…many…sounds,
Cecil. There are 


many things to hear…and to deal with.


…Yes there are a lot of sounds, Earl. Um, thankfully my job is to
talk and not to listen. Um, it is great to have you on the show,
Earl. Let’s do this again soon, OK?

 Bye bye Cecil, talk to you soon.


Alright, bye Earl.


The Investigators. Two hours of brand new Night Vale, available now
at iTunes and at 

.

Condos (official release)


At last, we are alone. At last we are, all of us, alone together. At last, every human, alone together, on this earth.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Thrilling news, listeners! It has come to our attention that there will be condos for sale, right here in Night Vale. Details on them are a little hazy – for instance, we don’t know what these condos will look like, where they will be located, who is building them, and what they will cost. But in the official brochure for the development, it does say

in a thick, all-caps, black scrawl.

One local realtor, speaking under the condition of anonymity, and from within the belly of a grazing deer, said that the condos are a great investment.

“Invest your money in condos,” said the realtor. “Invest your 

 in condos. Invest your life. Invest emotion and hope. Invest your ideas about the future, invest your disappointment with your ongoing ‘now.’ Invest drops of blood. You lose blood all the time on frivolous accidents, now is the chance to imbue it with purpose and verve. Spill your blood for the condos!”

The realtor was then cut off when the deer was spooked by a passing car and ran away.

Listeners, I don’t know much about condos. I…don’t know much about 

, honestly. But I do know this: condos are coming to Night Vale. They will be for sale, and this is great and exciting news for us all!

Well, it seems that just about half the town of Night Vale is lined up outside of the Condo Rental Office, which is located in the Abandoned Gas Station on Oxford Street. 

 is there.

Janice Rio (from down the street), who was practically hopping up and down with excitement over owning a new condo…whatever a condo is…whatever it looks like; Leann Hart, Publishing Editor of the Night Vale Daily Journal, who was holding a bloodied hatchet, in case she came across any bloggers or online journalists who might threaten her grip on the printed word; Carlos the Scientist. Ahh…

He was there, wearing a business-casual lab coat, and analyzing those around him with complicated devices he couldn’t explain without eventually just shaking his head and muttering, “Uhh, science.”

I don’t know if I’ve ever mentioned this on this show, by the way, um,…but Carlos is totally my boyfriend! I just didn’t know if I had brought that up before. He’s— he’s very handsome. And into science. And he 

 learning to be better about calling when he needs to cancel dates to get some experiments done.

Where was I? Ah, yes.

Even the dreaded Glow Cloud was there, hurling dead animals down upon those in line and intoning, to all that would listen, 

You know, it makes total sense that the Glow Cloud would want one of these condos. I mean, after joining the School Board, and sending your kid to the local school, you know, you need to have a nice place at which to raise whatever strange and terrible creature it is that constitutes your family.

No one could see into the Abandoned Gas Station, so no one knew what the Condo Rental Office looked like. There was only a bubbling, dark movement, like a pot of boiling squid ink, and the occasional pinpoint of light, like distant, dying stars. People began to shove each other, trying to catch a glimpse of what the condos might be. There was shouting.

Roger Singh started to point at every object in his sight – blades of grass, the rust shell of a former gas pump, Janice Rio (from down the street) – asking, “Is that a condo? Is 

 a condo?” in a high, cracked voice.

And…all right. I know this is out of nowhere, but…at what point in a relationship is it normal to think about living together? Is…let’s say…buying a condo a sign that you want to move to that stage? Is that what an action like that might hypothetically be indicating?

Oh, yes, also, Roger was holding a freshly-severed spine of an unknown animal or possible person, waving it at the bubbling dark window and howling, “Give me a condo! What 

 a condo? Give me one! Will this buy me a condo?”

As of press time, no one had told him whether a 

would buy him a condo.

But, do you know what I mean? Like, could this be a 

 that he wants to move things in that direction? You know, I just wish he would communicate more 

 sometimes, but…scientists don’t communicate directly. Everybody knows that. They communicate using a series of obscure and arcane codes and signals. That is what is meant to be a scientist.

Roger has started flailing at people with the detached spine. Uhh, several people have been trampled. It is still not known whether he will be able to buy a condo with the spine. Probably not.

[Cell phone ringing]

I’m sorry, listeners, I’m going to have to get this.

Uhm, hello?

Carlos?!?

Yeah, I’ve been meaning to tell you…you sound 

 lately.

Uh– No– I didn’t know you went in for surgery!

Oh, no, I knew that. I mean, obviously I knew 

. I’m very into science. But hey, listen, I’m in the middle of a show!

Well, I didn’t know you listened to my show.

I–

OK, hold on, listeners. I’ll be right with you.

So…those condos, right? They’re– they’re very exciting, right?

Right. So…are you doing OK? Um, I’m getting reports that it’s even more fatal outside than usual.

But time…

No I understand, I lov–

Oh, um, uh, sorry, no no no, you go!

Oh, um. OK. Um…goodbye.

Uh, I’m sorry, listeners. Um, yeah, where was I? Um…

Let’s talk about your health for a moment. Let’s concentrate on your health. Let’s 

 about your health. Do you feel healthy? Pay close attention to your body and see if you feel as healthy as you thought.

Oh! Was that a slight 

 in the muscle of your arm? That is a 

 That’s a symptom of all sorts of diseases. Was that a slight 

 as you breathed in? Sure, it could just be allergies, or a mild cold…but it also could be the start of tuberculosis. Does tuberculosis even 

 with a sniffle? 

 And so it might very well.

Listen to your heart beating. Hear your heart beat. Feel it. Feel the one thing keeping you alive. Feel your heart beat. Are you healthy?

This has been a public health announcement by the greater Night Vale medical community. Their lines are open for appointments now. Please have a credit card ready.

Ladies and gentlemen, the condos are here! They arrived, silently, in the night. They are thoroughly modern in their design. They are 

 modern, it is postulated they might actually be from a few centuries in the future, which is the most modern a thing can be.

The condos are featureless black cubes. They are standing, perfect, dark forms, where the ramshackle homes and dust-worn strip malls of Night Vale once stood. And there are so many of them! They are a majestic cityscape. They are a nightmare. And they are beautiful.

Carlos has hauled out his science equipment (of course), and is testing the cubes. The cubes emit a low level of radiation, and some sort of strange, pulsing energy. The energy would be difficult to describe in scientific terms but, if he had to give it language, he would probably use the scientific terms “pulsing” and “strange.”

The cubes do not appear to have any entrance, or windows…so they are similar to many of the old tract homes that were built around here in the 1950s. But, they also do not appear to have any roof or foundation, or yard, or terrace, or patio, or any other vestige of a home.

They only have their sleek lines, their contours, their corners, the sheerness of their featureless walls.

We do not yet know if these condos mean us harm, or well.

We only know of their presence, and so, let us know 

. Let us all hold on to that knowledge. The condos, black cubes of enormous size, are here…and we know it.

And now—

Um, listeners, there is a voice, but I can see no one in my studio. It is a familiar voice, and also my coffee cup appears to be three inches to the left of where it was.

Ahh, I see. Um, well, while I have you here—

Well, I’m sure that lower meals means…faster digestion! Um, or not 

, but I’m saying it. And 

saying it, I am instantly believing it, and then I’m going from believing it to being 

about it, against all evidence to the contrary.

Right!

Now, you mentioned the condos. Let me ask you, what do you think it means when Carlos says he’s looking at condos? I mean, did he mean that he wanted us 

 to look at condos together? Or was he communicating independence, like, “You stay here, I’m going off to look at condos 

.”

I mean, do you think he’s looking to just buy one for 

 Is 

 what you’re saying?

Or is he looking for a 

 condo?

…Hello? Hello?

Well, I can no longer see a fleeting image of someone just over my shoulder, no flicker of movement from the corner of my eye, so I guess she’s gone.

Also, there are three slow walking gray roaches climbing out of my coffee cup.

And also, I am out of coffee.

And now, traffic.

Picture a car.

No, you are doing it wrong. Try again.

Picture a car.

…Really? 

 what you picture when you picture a car?

All right, look…we’ll go with that. I’m not happy about it, but we’ll go with your idea of a car for now. So.

Picture that car. And now, picture a road. Are you picturing it? Close your eyes if you have to. If you need to, gently remove your eyes and slip them into your bag.

Do you see the car driving on the road? Good.

Now, picture a destination. Any destination you want.

No, that was incorrect. The correct destination was a clear and placid lake.

So, all of you, out there, picture the car. Picture the road. Picture the clear and placid lake.

And what I want you to do now is put the car in the lake.

It’s very simple. Just imagine the car leaving the road, and now entering the lake.

Leaving the road, entering the lake.

Great.

Are we all picturing the car in the lake? OK.

City Council is notifying me that the test went perfectly, and that we all successfully murdered a lone driver using the collective willpower of our minds. Wow! 

 The human mind is a powerful thing!

This has been traffic.

Reports are in that the first condo buyers nervously approached their acquisitions, those black cubes, giant, where once stood other places. The buyers edged toward them. They reached out their hands, trembling. They touched the smooth, cold walls of the cubes, and they saw.

They saw.

Janice Rio (from down the street) saw a city. A lost city. A dead city, nestled in a jungle – the kind of jungle that only ever existed in books written by people who have never seen a jungle. The city stood, and Janice stood, in 

 dread, its doors were open jaws. Its windows were open jaws. Its roads and avenues were gaping mouths and open jaws. That dead city teetered. It rotted in its jungle tomb, but…it was not empty. And she started to run. Run through the thick foliage of that absurd place, she shouted and ran.

And then her hand slipped away from the condo, and it was all gone. And she fell to her knees weeping, as though she had lost something, although of course, she’d never 

 anything at all.

Roger Singh (who 

 been able to buy a condo with the spine) saw a cave, underwater, in an ocean far to the north. And the water around him was dark – so dark! – that he wasn’t sure even which way led to the surface, to life…and which way led down only to the deep silent. He gasped, but found he had no breath…and no need to breathe. And there was this cave that smoldered with a light, a light that was 

 and 

. And shadows moved against the light, cast by…what?…within the cave. And then he swam towards it, uncertain whether he was guest, or sacrifice, or invulnerable dreamer. And he heard a song from the cave, and he knew it, and it was 

. And he sang along, but at the same time, he had never heard that song before in his life. And what 

 life? What 

 it his? It all seemed so small, part of the world that didn’t exist anymore. And then he went backwards from the face of the condo, and the ocean and the cave vanished, and he stared up at the blue sky, as awash with light as the water around him had been dark.

“Was that a condo?” he asked. “Was that what one is?”

Another, Samantha Guzman, only screamed — her eyes bulging wider and wider, her hand clamped to the surface of the cube.

So…it seems that move-in day is going pretty well so far!

Today’s show is brought to you by the generous support of the following sponsors:

Please help our show by supporting these sponsors, using chants and simple offerings.

And now, more on the condo story.

Oh, yes, excuse me?

Hello, Hiram. Uh, it’s great to have you live in the studio, and also you, and you, and you, and you.

My apologies, you are perfectly right. That was my failing as a community radio host, but it’s just…hey, listen, I’m just a little distracted. Um, oh! Can I ask you sort of um…a relationship question?

I…know very little.

Well, that’s a…nice favorite memory!

Nope, again, knowledge very limited here.

No, thank 

, Hiram. Um, that was a very nice story. Even if I did my very best to learn nothing from it.

Goodbye!

Wow! Man, what a striking and charismatic dragon. Mm, mm-mm-mm. Where was I?

Ah, yes. More now, on the condo story.

Those people who have been given terrible visions by the condos are saying that they 

 they must go back – go back to their condo. That something felt 

 about what they saw. That even as they 

terrified, they must go back to see what it is will happen next.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police are attempting to stop the condo owners by sending passive-aggressive messages via helicopter-borne loudspeaker.

“Sure,” they are saying. “Go ahead. Touch the cube again. I guess. I mean, if you don’t care about your community, and your fellow citizens, then I guess you probably should. We won’t miss you anyway! Like, no big deal. Touch the cube if you want!”

And they are.

Roger, Samantha, Janice Rio (from down the street) – they are touching the great black walls of the condo cubes, and the walls are rippling and bubbling as though liquid, like a pot of boiling squid ink, with darting lights, like distant dying stars. The hands of the people are pushing through into the space within, whatever that space is, and they are – one by one, and with varying degrees of hesitancy – entering their condos.

Bystanders say that once inside, the human forms are going limp, and floating up into the center of the cubes, where they stay, paralyzed. Faces, slack. Eyes, glazed.

A small sign has appeared outside of each cube that contains a person. The sign is red, and says in simple white lettering:

Listeners, I 

 advise getting yours today. Not until we understand fully what these condos are. And, given our track record, we will likely 

 fully understand what they are. So it’s best just to stay away.

More on this as it develops. But first, a look at the Community Calendar.

This Friday, the staff of Dark Owl Records will be holding a clearance sale. “EVERYTHING MUST GO!” they will declare on a bright banner with a thick font.

“Music is old! It’s ancient! It cannot tell the stories of our lives, our souls, our societies any longer!” the banner will read. “It cannot mean anything! It cannot give you what you need! Buy this music, and 

this music!,” the banner will say in bright yellows and blues.

“Tear it into plastic shards and swallow it! It knows not what it has wrought on our world!” the banner will exclaim to excited music lovers. “Let it shred you from within as we laugh from without!” the banner will announce.

“40% off all CDs, 70% off all posters! Friday only!”

Saturday afternoon is the opening of the new Kid’s Unlearning Wing at the Museum of Forbidden Technologies. Well, this wing has been built, but no one is certain 

. The museum staff says that they kids interested in unlearning all about forbidden technologies, as well as those kids who are 

interested…well, in fact, 

 children, the museum says, will eventually be chosen during sleep. They will wake up late one night in this new wing, experiencing all the magic and wonder of unlearning.

Sunday morning, the Night Vale PTA will be holding a raffle. Tickets are only $2 each, and the winner (as usual) will never be heard from again.

Monday has been rescheduled to Wednesday, and Wednesday has been doubled.

Tuesday…oh-ho-ho-ho-ho, man. Uhh, you don’t even want to know.

Or, you 

 want to know, but the powers that be don’t even want you to know, so you can all just be properly surprised.

This has been the Community Calendar.

[phone rings]

Hello?

Carlos? Hi. Umm, I’m on the air. Um, I’m still doing the show.

Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait…for us? That 

 could—

You touched the condo? Don’t! Don’t touch the condo! Don’t touch it again! You know what? Hold on, I’ll be right there!

Carlos, no! Don’t go in there! Carlos! Carlos! Hello?

I’m sorry, ladies and gentlemen, um, I have — Listen, I’ll be back really soon. I’ll be back as soon as I can.

But before I go, let me take you now to the weather.

[“

“ by 

]

Look, I’m— I’m sorry, listeners, I’m back. I’m 

 sorry for…

By the time I got there, Carlos was floating in the cube, and there was that sign, “a perfect kind of human, a perfect kind of life.” Well…I didn’t hesitate, I jumped into that black cube after him, and instantly I saw. I saw great distances. I saw…ugh. J

I saw a dark planet lit by no sun. I saw shrouded figures standing on a beach in a circle, gently swaying into each other against the backdrop of a roiling, bottomless ocean.

I saw all of this, and I understood!

I understood that the cubes are perfect! I understood that this is how we 

perfect. I understood that what I was seeing was the 

 to perfection. And I don’t know how I understood this. Thinking about it now, nothing about it seems 

, let alone 

.

But inside the cube, within its chambers, it all makes sense. And I understood.

And there was a moment. There was a moment, dear listeners, where I 

 it. I considered joining Carlos and becoming 

. But I’ve come to know something after these months together with dear Carlos.

Perfection isn’t real. Perfection isn’t 

. And Carlos is not perfect, no. Even better — 

Everything about him, and us, and all of this, is…it’s imperfect! And those imperfections in our reality are the seams and the cracks into which our out-sized love can seep and pool. And sometimes we are annoyed, and disappointed, and that too is a part of how love works. It is not a perfect system, but…

Oh, well.

And so I resisted.

I fought off the vision of the shrouded figures and the dark planet and all that was perfect and I held close to imperfection.

To 

 imperfection.

And to my imperfect Carlos.

And I took him, and I carried him out of the cube. And we came up, heaving, into this world that will disappoint us.

Finally, free.

And he said, 

Actually, I– I recorded the whole conversation. Of course. Because I’m never without my microphone.

He said,

And I said “Yes! Yes! That would be, well, 

”

"But somewhere else, OK? A duplex, or an apartment…I don’t think a condo.”

And he said, 

And then he said…

Listen…he thinks I shouldn’t tell you everything, that…I should leave a little something there that belongs just to us.

So.

The cubes are slowly fading into the earth, taking those who are frozen inside within them. The Sheriff’s Secret Police report that those within the cubes are becoming another 

 entirely. That they have become the sound that a certain type of sand makes under your feet, the tone of light at a certain time of day.

Walking through where the condos once stood, you can hear their voices — but distantly, faintly. And if you reach out when you hear that voice, if you reach out and feel for them, you too will get a vision of some far-off place, a place that is, in its own way, in a way perhaps that can never be explained, perfect.

A perfect place that you will never visit. And t

Listeners, I send you now back out into the night. And it’s dangerous out there, and it’s lonely, and it’s 

perfect.

Stay tuned next for a round of applause followed by a round of silence and departure.

Goodnight, all of you here, goodnight, all of you listeners, and goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Condos (unofficial release - fan recording)


Welcome to Night Vale. 

Thrilling news, listeners! It has come to our attention that there will be condos for sale right here in Night Vale! Details on them are a little hazy – for instance, we don’t know what these condos will look like, where they will be located, who is building them, and what they will cost. But in the official brochure for the development, it does say

in a thick, all-caps, black scrawl.

One local realtor, speaking under the condition of anonymity, and from within the belly of a grazing deer, said that condos are a great investment.

“Invest your money in condos,” said the realtor. “Invest your 

 in condos. Invest your life. Invest emotions and hope. Invest your ideas about the future, invest your disappointment with your ongoing ‘now.’ Invest drops of blood. You lose blood all the time on frivolous accidents, now is your chance to imbue it with purpose and verve. Spill your blood before the condos!”

The realtor was then cut off when the deer was spooked by a passing car and ran away.

Well. Look, listeners. I don’t know much about condos. I don’t know much about 

, honestly. But I do know this: condos are coming to Night Vale. They will be for sale, and this is great and exciting news for us all!

And now for some more great and exciting news:

The Museum of Forbidden Technologies is proud to announce their new special exhibit: “A Startling and Highly Forbidden Piece of Technology Brought to Us by Time Travelers…or…Ancient Long-Dead Aliens…or…Russians…or Whatever.”

The technology will be kept in a locked vault, which itself will be wrapped in thick, black bandages, with a hand-written sign taped to one side, saying only:

Your ticket includes a free audio guide, which will play a single piercing tone, designed to considerately remove you from the world of thought, and sound, and sentience.

The Museum of Forbidden Technologies. Bring your kids! Otherwise, something 

 might happen to them.

Well, it seems that just about half the town of Night Vale is lined up outside of the Condo Rental Office, which is located in the Abandoned Gas Station on Oxford Street, and 

 is there.

Janice Rio (from down the street), who was practically hopping up and down with excitement over owning a new condo, whatever a condo is, and whatever it looks like; Leann Hart, Publishing Editor of the Night Vale Daily Journal, who was holding a bloodied hatchet, in case she came across any bloggers or online journalists who might threaten her grip on the printed word; Carlos the Scientist…

He was there, wearing a business-casual lab coat, and analyzing those around him with complicated devices he couldn’t explain, without eventually just shaking his head and muttering, “Uhh, science.”

Umm…I don’t know if I’ve ever mentioned this on this show, by the way, but…Carlos is totally my boyfriend! I just didn’t know if I had brought that up? I don’t…um. He’s– he’s very handsome, and– and into science, 

 he is learning to be better about calling when he needs to cancel dates to get some experiments done.

Where was I? Oh yes, OK.

Even the dreaded Glow Cloud was there, hurling dead animals down upon those in line and intoning, to all that would listen, 

You know, it makes total sense that the Glow Cloud would want one of these condos. I mean, after joining the School Board, and sending your kid to the local school, you need to have a nice place at which to raise…whatever strange and terrible creature it is that constitutes your family.

No one could see into the Abandoned Gas Station, so no one knew what the Condo Rental Office looked like. There was only a bubbling, dark movement, like a pot of boiling squid ink, and the occasional pinpoint of light, like distant, dying stars. People began to shove each other, trying to catch a glimpse of what the condos might be. There was shouting.

Roger Singh started to point at every object in his sight – blades of grass, the husked shell of a former gas pump, Janice Rio (from down the street) – asking, “Is that a condo? Is– is 

 a condo?” in a high, cracked voice.

And…all right, this is out of nowhere, I know, but…at what point in a relationship do certain people think about living together? Is…is this a…buying a condo a sign that you want to move to that stage? Is that what an action like that might hypothetically be indicating?

Oh, also, Roger was holding a freshly-separated spine of an unknown animal or possible person, waving it at the bubbling dark window and howling, “Give me a condo! What is a condo? Give me one! Will this buy me a condo?”

As of press time, no one had told him whether a 

 would buy him a condo.

But, do you know what I mean? Like, could this be a 

 that he wants to move things in that direction? You know, I just wish he would communicate more 

 sometimes, but scientists do not communicate directly. Everybody knows that. They communicate using a series of obscure and arcane codes and signals. That is what is meant to be a scientist.

And Roger has started flailing at people with the detached spine, and several people have been trampled, and it is still not known whether he will be able to buy a condo with the spine. Probably not.

Let’s talk about your health for a moment. Let’s concentrate on your health. Let’s 

 about your health. Do you feel healthy? Pay close attention to your body and see if you feel as healthy as you thought.

Aah? Was that a slight 

 in the muscle of your arm? That is a 

. That’s a symptom of all sorts of diseases. Was that a slight sniffle as you breathed in? Sure, it could just be allergies or a mild cold, but it also could be the start of tuberculosis. Does tuberculosis even 

 with a sniffle? You don’t know. And so it might very well!

Listen to your heart beating. Hear that heart beat. Feel it. Feel the one thing keeping you alive. Feel your heart beat. Are you healthy?

This has been a public health announcement by the greater Night Vale medical community. Their lines are open for appointments now. Please have your credit cards ready.

And now–

Listeners, there is a voice, but I can see no one in my studio. It is a familiar voice, also my coffee cup appears to be three inches to the left of where it was.

Ahh, I see. Well, um, while I have you here–

Well, I’m sure that lower meals means…faster digestion! Or…not 

, but I’m saying it. And 

 saying it, I am instantly believing it, and then I’m going from believing it to being 

 about it, against all evidence to the contrary.

Right!

Now, you mentioned the condos. Let me ask you, what do you think it means when Carlos says he’s looking at condos? Does he mean that he wanted us both to look at condos together? Or was he communicating independence, like, “You stay here, I’m going off to look at condos 

.”

Do you think he’s looking to just buy one for 

 Is 

 what he’s saying?

Or…or is he looking for a shared condo?

…Hello? Hello?

I can no longer see a fleeting image of someone just over my shoulder, no flicker of movement from the corner of my eye…I guess she is gone.

Also, there are three slow walking gray roaches climbing out of my coffee cup.

And also, I am out of coffee.

Ladies and gentlemen, the condos are here! They have arrived, silently, in the night. They are thoroughly modern in their design. They are 

 modern, it is postulated they may actually be from a few centuries in the future, which is the most modern a thing can be.

The condos are featureless black cubes. They are standing, perfect, dark forms, where the ramshackle homes and dust-worn strip malls of Night Vale once stood. There are…so many of them! They are a majestic cityscape. They are a nightmare. And they are beautiful.

Carlos has hauled out his science equipment (of course), and is testing the cubes. The cubes emit a low level of radiation, and some sort of strange, pulsing energy. This energy is difficult to describe in scientific terms but, if he had to give it language, he would probably use the scientific terms “pulsing” and “strange.”

The cubes do not appear to have any entrance, or windows…so they are similar to many of the old tract homes built around here in the 1950s, but they also do not appear to have any roof or foundation, or yard, or terrace, or patio, or any other vestige of a home.

They only have their steep lines, their contours, their corners, their sheerness of their featureless walls.

We do not yet know if these condos mean us harm, or well.

We only know of their presence. And so, let us know that. Let us all hold on to that knowledge. The condos, black cubes of enormous size, are here…and we know it.

And now, the traffic.

Picture a car.

Nope! You are picturing it wrong. Try again.

Picture a car.

…Really? 

 what you picture when you picture a car?

All right, look…we’ll go with that. I’m not happy about it, but we’ll go with your idea of a car for now. So.

Picture that car. And now, picture a road. Are you picturing it? No, close your eyes if you have to. If you need to, gently remove your eyes and slip them into your bag.

Do you see the car driving down the road? Good.

Now picture a destination. Any destination you want.

Nope! That was incorrect. The correct destination was a clear and placid lake.

So all of you, out there, picture the car. Picture the road. Picture the clear and placid lake.

And what I want you to do now is put the car in the lake.

It’s very simple. Just imagine the car leaving the road, and now entering the lake.

Leaving the road, entering the lake.

Great.

Are we all picturing the car in the lake? OK.

City Council is notifying me that the test worked, and that we successfully murdered a lone driver somewhere, completely with the power of our minds. Wow! 

 The human mind is a powerful thing!

This has been traffic.

Reports are in that the first condo buyers nervously approached their acquisitions, those black cubes, giants where once stood other places, the buyers edged toward them and they reached out their hands, trembling, they touched the smooth, cold walls of the cubes, and they saw. They saw.

Janice Rio (from down the street) saw a city. A lost city. A dead city, nestled in a jungle – the kind of jungle that only ever existed in books written by people who had never seen a jungle. The city stood, and Janice stood. A 

 dread, its doors were open jaws. Its windows were open jaws. Its roads and avenues were gaping mouths and open jaws. That dead city teetered. It rotted in its jungle tomb, but it was not empty. And she started to run. Run through the thick foliage of that absurd place, she shouted and ran.

And then her hand slipped away from the condo, and it was all gone. And she fell to her knees weeping, as though she had lost something, although of course, she’d never had anything at all.

Roger Singh (who had been able to buy a condo with the spine) saw a cave, underwater, in an ocean far to the north. The water around him was dark – so dark! – that he wasn’t sure even which way led to the surface, to life…and which led down only to the deep silent. He gasped, but found he had no breath…and no need to breathe. And there was this cave that smoldered with a light, a light that was 

 and 

. Shadows moved against the light, cast by – what? – within the cave. And then he swam toward it, uncertain whether he was guest, or sacrifice, or invulnerable dreamer. He heard a song from the cave, and he knew it, and it was 

. And he sang along. But at the same time, he had never heard that song before in his life. And what 

 his life? What 

 it his? It all seemed so small, part of the world that didn’t exist anymore. Then he went backwards from the face of the condo, and the ocean and the cave vanished, and he stared up at the blue sky, as awash with light as the water around him had been dark.

“Was that a condo?” he asked. “Was that what…what was?”

Another, Samantha Guzman, only screamed – eyes bulging wider and wider, her hand clamped to the surface of the cube.

So…it seems that move-in day is going smoothly!

Today’s show is brought to you by the generous support of the following sponsors:

Please help our show by supporting these sponsors, using chants and simple offerings.

More, now, on the condo story.

Those people who have been given terrible visions by the condos are saying that they 

 they must go back, go back to their condo, that something felt 

 about what they saw. And that, even as they 

 terrified, they must go back to see what it is will happen next.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police are attempting to stop the condo owners by sending passive-aggressive messages via helicopter-borne loudspeaker.

“Sure,” they are saying. “Go ahead. Touch the cube again. I guess. I mean, if you don’t care about your community, or your fellow citizens, then I guess you probably should. We won’t miss you anyway! Like, no big deal. Touch the cube…if you want.”

And they are.

Roger, Samantha, Janice Rio (from down the street) – they are touching the great black walls of the condo cubes, and the walls are rippling and bubbling as though liquid, like a pot of boiling squid ink, with dirty lights, like distant dying stars. The hands of the people are pushing through into the space within, whatever that space is, and they are – one by one, and with varying degrees of hesitancy – entering their condos.

Bystanders say that once inside, the human forms are going limp, and floating out into the center of the cubes where they stay, paralyzed. Faces, slack. Eyes, glazed.

A small sign has appeared outside of each cube that contains a person. The sign is red, and it says in simple white lettering:

Listeners, I 

 advise getting yours today. Not until we fully understand what these condos are. And, given our track record, we will likely 

 fully understand what they are, so best just stay away.

More on this as it develops. But first, a look at the Community Calendar.

This Friday, the staff of Dark Owl Records will be putting on a live concert. They will be scratching madly at the sides of a deep pit in a rarely-traveled part of the desert. They will also be screaming, and starving. They will be crying and clawing – no one will hear them for days. They will be found, but they will not be the same.

Tickets are not available and they never were.

Saturday afternoon is Amnesty Day at the Night Vale Public Library. Librarians request that if you have overdue books, or have committed any high-level international crime, or domestic treason, or space-travel felony, you should just come to the library, and all will be forgiven.

The Librarians say that they will not harm you. In fact, they add, “It doesn’t hurt at all. Amnesty is actually quite freeing, quite delicious!” the Librarians explained. “You will never have to worry about 

 else. Just come to the library and let us see you. Let us see you!” they added for emphasis, and a long string of spittle flew sideways from their great yellow and gnarled teeth.

And, on Sunday night…

Aaaah, OK, I can’t read this here. Uh, listeners, it looks like someone printed a very ancient prophecy here? Umm, right here in our station’s Community Calendar. Uh, for fear of a curse of misfortune I shall not read it aloud, just know that the prophecy is complete on Sunday night…

OK, OK OK…I’ll give you a hint. Umm, let’s just say…comets, burning rain, animal uprising…

OK, Cecil, OK, enough, enough enough enough! You’ve told them too much, let them have their surprise!

Monday was never meant to be, but it will be anyway. We will wander within its moonlit beginning, and end wondering how such a thing could happen, how 

 could happen. We will be appreciative, but a little bit frightened, completely ignoring the persistence of time and the limitations of our own understanding.

Tuesday is a joke. A terrible, terrible joke.

Let me take this moment, also, to apologize for that lengthy monologue a few moments ago by the Man in the Tan Jacket carrying deerskin suitcase. He ran in here, and began ranting into the microphone, and then left quite suddenly. I…I don’t remember what it was he said. It was only just…minutes ago.

Oh, and I think I remember that it sounded really urgent. I can barely remember speaking with him at all, and I don’t even remember what the man was wearing, or carrying with him, or that it was even a 'he,’ or that any time passed at all.

And I guess that concludes whatever I was just saying just before this sentence.

[phone rings]

Hello?

Carlos? Yeah, hi. Umm, I’m on the air? Umm, yeah, I’m doing a show right now.

Wait, wait, for us? You mean, we could—

You touched the condo? No, no no no! Don’t touch the condo! Don’t— don’t touch it again! Hold on, I will…I’ll be right there!

No, Carlos, no! Don’t go in there! Carlos! Carlos!

Ladies and gentlemen, I’m very sorry, I have to— Listen, I’m going to be back as soon as I can.

But before I go, let me take you now to the weather.

[

 by 

]

I’m– I’m sorry, listeners, I’m 

 sorry, I just– listen.

By the time I got there, Carlos was floating in the cube, and there was that sign, “a perfect kind of human, a perfect kind of life,” well…I didn’t hesitate, I jumped into that black cube after him, and instantly I saw. I saw great distances. I saw…ugh. I saw 

I saw a dark planet lit by no sun. I saw shrouded figures standing on a beach in a circle, gently swaying into each other against the backdrop of a roiling, bottomless ocean.

And there was a moment. There was a moment, dear listeners, when I 

 it. I considered joining Carlos and becoming 

. But I’ve come to know something after these months together with dear Carlos.

Perfection is not real. Perfection is not 

. Carlos is not perfect, no. Even better — 

Everything about him, and us, and all of this, is 

! And those imperfections in our reality are the seams and cracks into which our out-sized love can seep and pool. And sometimes we are annoyed, and disappointed, and that too is part of how love works. It is not a perfect system, but oh!

Oh, well.

And so I resisted.

I fought off the vision of the shrouded figures and the dark planet and all that was perfect and I held close to 

.

To my own imperfection.

To my imperfect Carlos.

I took him, and I carried him out of the cube. I came up, heaving, into this world that will disappoint us.

Finally, free.

And he said to me, “I just thought that maybe it was…it was time for us, maybe, to make a home. Together.”

And I said “Yes! Please! That would be, well, 

”

“But somewhere else, OK? A duplex, an apartment…I don’t think a condo.”

“No,” he said, “Not a condo.”

And then he said, “Listen—”

Mmmmmmm……he thinks I shouldn’t tell you everything.

That’s…I should leave a little something there that belongs just to us.

So.

The cubes were slowly fading into the earth, taking those who are frozen inside within them. The Sheriff’s Secret Police report that those within the cubes are becoming another 

 entirely. They have become the sound that a certain type of sand makes under your feet, the tone of light at a certain time of day.

Walking through where the condos once stood, you can still hear their voices — but distantly, and faintly. And if you reach out when you hear that voice, if you reach out and feel for them, you too will get a vision of some far-off place, a place that is, in its own way, in a way perhaps that can never be explained, 

.

A perfect place that you will never visit. 

Listeners, I must send you out into the night. And it is dangerous out there. It is lonely, and it is 

. So.

Stay tuned next for a round of applause followed by a round of silence and departure.

Goodnight, all of you here, goodnight, all of you listeners, and goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

[

 by 

]

Episode 1 - Pilot


A friendly desert community where the sun is hot, the moon is beautiful, and mysterious lights pass overhead while we all pretend to sleep.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello, listeners.

To start things off, I’ve been asked to read this brief notice:

The City Council announces the opening of a new Dog Park at the corner of Earl and Somerset, near the Ralph’s. They would like to remind everyone that dogs are not allowed in the Dog Park. People are not allowed in the Dog Park.

It is possible you will see Hooded Figures in the Dog Park.

The fence is electrified and highly dangerous. Try not to look at the Dog Park, and especially do not look for any period of time at the Hooded Figures. The Dog Park will not harm you.

And now, the news.

Old Woman Josie, out near the Car Lot, says the Angels revealed themselves to her. Said they were ten feet tall, radiant, and one of them was black. Said they helped her with various household chores. One of them changed a light bulb for her – the porch light. She’s offering to sell the old light bulb, which has been touched by an Angel. It was the black Angel, if that sweetens the pot for anyone. If you’re interested, contact Old Woman Josie. She’s out near the Car Lot.

A new man came into town today. Who is he? What does he want from us? Why his perfect and beautiful haircut? Why his perfect and beautiful coat? He says he is a scientist. Well…we have 

 been scientists at one point or another in our lives. But why now? Why here? And just what does he plan to do with all those breakers and humming electrical instruments in that lab he’s renting – the one next to Big Rico’s Pizza?

No one does a slice like Big Rico. 

Just a reminder to all the parents out there: let’s talk about safety when taking your children out to play in the scrublands and the sand wastes. You need to give them plenty of water, make sure there’s a shade tree in the area, and keep an eye on the helicopter colors.

Are the unmarked helicopters circling the area black? Probably World Government. Not a good area for play that day.

Are they blue? That’s the Sheriff’s Secret Police. They’ll keep a good eye on your kids, and 

 take one.

Are they painted with complex murals depicting birds of prey diving? No one knows what those helicopters are, or what they want. Do not play in the area. Return to your home and lock the doors until a Sheriff’s Secret Policeman leaves a carnation on your porch to indicate that the danger has passed. Cover your ears to blot out the screams.

Also remember: Gatorade is basically soda, so give your kids plain old water and maybe some orange slices when they play.

A commercial airliner flying through local airspace disappeared today, only to reappear in the Night Vale Elementary gymnasium during basketball practice, disrupting practice quite badly. The jet roared through the small gym for only a fraction of a second. And before it could strike any players or structure, it vanished again. This time, apparently, for good.

There is no word yet on if or how this will affect Night Vale Mountain Lions’ game schedule, and also if this could perhaps be the work of their bitter rivals the Desert Bluffs Cacti.

Desert Bluffs is always trying to show us up through fancier uniforms, better pre-game snacks, and possibly by transporting a commercial jet into our gymnasium, delaying practice for several minutes at least.

For shame, Desert Bluffs. For shame.

That new scientist – we now know it’s named Carlos – called a town meeting. He has a square jaw, and teeth like a military cemetery. His hair is perfect, and we all hate, and despair, and love that perfect hair in equal measure.

Old Woman Josie brought corn muffins which were decent, but lacked salt. She said the Angels had taken her salt for a Godly mission, and she hadn’t yet gotten around to buying more.

Carlos told us that we are 

 the most scientifically interesting community in the U.S., and he had come to study just what is going on around here. He grinned, and everything about him was perfect, and I fell in love instantly.

Government agents from a vague yet menacing agency were in the back, watching. I fear for Carlos. I fear for Night Vale. I fear for anyone caught between what they know and what they don’t yet know that they don’t know.

We received a press release this morning. The Night Vale Business Association is proud to announce the opening of the brand new Night Vale Harbor and Waterfront Recreation Area. I have been to these facilities myself recently on their invitation, and I can tell you that it is absolutely top of the line and beautiful.

Sturdy docking areas made from eco-friendly post-consumer material, a boardwalk for pedestrians, and plenty of stands ready for local food vendors and merchants to turn into a bustling public marketplace.

Now, there 

 some concern about the fact that, given we are in the middle of a desert, there is no actual water at the waterfront. And that is a definite drawback, I agree.

For instance, the boardwalk is currently overlooking sagebrush and rocks. The Business Association did not provide any specific remedies for this problem, but they assured me that the new harbor would be a big boost to Night Vale nonetheless.

Maybe wait until a flash flood and head down there for the full waterfront experience.

The local chapter of the NRA is selling bumper stickers as part of their fundraising week. They sent the station one to get some publicity. And we’re here to serve the community, so I’m happy to let you all know about it. The stickers are made from good, sturdy vinyl, and they read:

Stand outside of your front door and shout “NRA!” to order one.

Carlos and his team of scientists warn that one of the houses in the new development of Desert Creek, out back of the elementary school, doesn’t actually exist.

“It seems like it exists,” explained Carlos and his perfect hair. “Like it’s just right there when you look at it. And it’s between two other identical houses, so it would make more sense for it to be there than not.”

But, he says, they have done experiments and the house is definitely not there. At news time, the scientists are standing in a group on the sidewalk in front of the nonexistent house, daring each other to go knock on the door.

A great howling was heard from the Night Vale Post Office yesterday. Postal workers claim no knowledge, although passers-by describe the sound as being a little like a human soul being destroyed through black magic.

The Indian tracker – now, I don’t know if you’ve seen this guy around. He’s the one that appears to be of maybe Slavic origin, yet wears an Indian headdress out of some racist cartoon and claims to be able to read tracks on asphalt. He appeared on the scene, and swore that he would discover the truth.

No one responded because it’s really hard to take him seriously in that headdress of his.

Lights. Seen in the sky above the Arby’s. Not the glowing sign of Arby’s. Something higher, and beyond that. We know the difference. We’ve caught on to their game. We understand the “lights above Arby’s” game.

Invaders from another world.

Ladies and gentlemen, the future is here, and it’s about 100 feet above the Arby’s.

Carlos and his scientists at the monitoring station near Route 800 say their seismic monitors have been indicating wild seismic shifts – meaning to say that the ground should be going up and down all over the place. I don’t know about you folks, but the ground has been as still as the crust of a tiny globe rocketing through an endless void could be.

Carlos says that they’ve double-checked the monitors and they are in perfect working order. To put it plainly, there appears to be catastrophic earthquakes happening right here in Night Vale that absolutely no one can feel.

Well, submit an insurance claim anyway. See what you can get, right?

Traffic time, listeners.

Now, police are issuing warnings about ghost cars out on the highways, those cars only visible in the distance reaching unimaginable speeds leaving destinations unknown for destinations more unknown. They would like to remind you that you should not set your speed by these apparitions, and doing so will not be considered “following the flow of traffic.”

However, they do say that it’s probably safe to match speed with the mysterious lights in the sky, as whatever entities or organizations responsible appear to be cautious and reasonable drivers.

And now, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Welcome back, listeners.

The sun didn’t set at the correct time today, Carlos and his team of scientists report. They’re quite certain about it. They checked multiple clocks and the sun definitely set ten minutes later than it was supposed to.

I asked them if they had any explanations but they did not offer anything concrete. Mostly they sat in a circle around a desk clock, staring at it, murmuring, and cooing.

Still, we must be grateful to have the sun at all. It’s easy to forget in this hot, hot, 

 desert climate, but things would actually be slightly harder for us without the sun.

The next time the sun rises, whatever time that turns out to be, take a moment to feel grateful for all the warmth and light and even, yes, extreme heat that our desert community is gifted with.

The City Council would like to remind you about the tiered Heavens, and the hierarchy of Angels. The reminder is that you should not know anything about this.

Report all Angel sightings to the City Council for treatment.

And now a brief public service announcement.

Alligators: can they kill your children?

Yes.

Along those lines, to get personal for a moment, I think the best way to die would be swallowed by a giant snake. Going feet-first and whole into a slimy maw would give your life perfect symmetry.

Speaking of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, its owner, Teddy Williams, reports that he has found the entrance to a vast underground city in the pin retrieval area of Lane 5. He said he has not yet ventured into it; merely peered down at its strange spires and broad avenues.

He also reports voices of a distant crowd in the depths of that subterranean metropolis. Apparently the entrance was discovered when a bowling ball accidentally rolled into it, clattering down to the city below with sounds that echoed for miles across the impossibly huge cavern.

So, you know, whatever population that city has, they know about us now, and we might be hearing from them very soon.

Carlos, perfect and beautiful, came into our studios during the break earlier but declined to stay for an interview. He had some sort of blinking box in his hand covered with wires and tubes. Said he was testing the place for “materials.”

I don’t know what materials he meant but that box sure whistled and beeped a lot. When he put it close to the microphone it sounded like, well, like a bunch of baby birds had just woken up. Really went crazy.

Carlos looked nervous. I’ve never seen that kind of look on someone with that strong of a jaw. He left in a hurry. Told us to evacuate the building. But then, who would be here to talk to sweetly to all of you out there?

Settling in to be another clear night and pretty evening here in Night Vale. I hope all of you out there have someone to sleep through it with. Or, at least, good memories of when you did.

Goodnight, listeners. Goodnight.

Episode 10 - Feral Dogs


Regret nothing, until it is too late. Then regret 

.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Our top story today:

A roving pack of feral dogs has been terrorizing Night Vale for the past several hours. The dogs have been described as mostly mutts, possibly pit bull mixes. 

Sheriff’s Secret Police confirmed that the dog pack has already attacked a group of elementary school children this morning, around eight, as they were getting on the bus. Injuries were minor, as the children protected themselves ably with their school-issued nerve gas canisters and automatic pistols.

The dogs’ motives are not yet known, although authorities believe it could be meth and/or gang related. More on this story as it develops.

This Friday afternoon, the Parks Department will be spraying pesticide in all public park areas, and in neighborhoods with dense foliage and predominantly Irish heritage.

Night Vale is making a strong effort to reduce the mosquito population, and the dangerous diseases that they carry. Last year, mosquitoes were responsible for outbreaks of West Nile, influenza, panache, elephantitis, and Fanny Brice Approximation Syndrome.

Please stay indoors from 1:00 PM Friday until 10:00 PM Saturday to avoid dermal contact with the pesticide – which has been known to cause skin abrasions, epilepsy, 

 epilepsy, and organ inversion. The Parks Department also notes that the pesticide has a half-life of 2,100 years, which means we’ll be safe from those annoying mosquitoes for a long time. 

We just received word from Wayne Tyler, Assistant Shift Manager at the new Pinkberry, that the pack of feral dogs was seen this morning rooting around in the dumpsters behind the library. They made off with some discarded Chinese take-out containers, a rusty futon frame, and two homeless men – likely to become henchpeople to the wild dogs. 

The Night Vale Medical Board has issued a new study indicating that you have a spider somewhere on your body at all times, but especially 

. The study said that further research would be needed to determine exactly where on your body the spider is, and what its intentions are. Only that it is definitely there, and that it is statistically likely to be one of the really 

 ones.

Let’s go now to Community Health Tips.

Listeners: Are you suffering from carpal tunnel syndrome? Are you 

 carpal tunnel syndrome? Are you 

 by carpal tunnel syndrome? Are you 

 by carpal tunnel syndrome? Do you feel a 

 from carpal tunnel syndrome? Do you feel a 

from carpal tunnel syndrome? Do you get 

 by carpal tunnel syndrome? That would be weird.

Not to be judgmental, but…it would be weird.

This has been Community Health Tips.

Listeners, we’ve just learned that the drawbridge construction site has been hit by graffiti vandals. The sheriff’s Secret Police suspect the feral dog pack to be responsible for the giant spray-painted lettering along the bridge scaffolding that reads:

and

There was also a very elaborately painted portrait of Alexander Hamilton wearing Groucho Marx nose glasses, with a caption that reads:

…but where 

 is crossed out, and 

 is written in red.

Actually, you should see this. It’s truly stunning. All that with spray paint – I’m impressed! These guys are really good artists!

Nevertheless, these dogs are possibly armed, and possibly rabid. They are 

 Libertarian street artists, and that has police and city officials working double-time to solve this problem.

If you have any tips that could lead to the capture of this roving band of dogs, please, 

.

We’ve also received word that they have tapped your phone and computers, so best not leave the house or talk loudly.

Let’s have a look at the Community Calendar.

This Sunday afternoon, the Night Vale Fire Department will be holding its Bi-Weekly Fire Person Appreciation Parade. All of the town’s firefighters will be riding through Main Street on their bright red engines, which will be turned into floats depicting some of the greatest fires in Night Vale’s history.

One of my personal favorites is the 1983 Earthquake Dust Fire, when tremor-initiated fires became so intense that the airborne sand burst into deadly flames. Nearly the entire city population was lost, and the FDNV does a fantastic job capturing the drama with streamers and paper mache.

The Fire Department would like to remind Night Vale citizens that the parade is free, and to check your coffee makers and gas stoves before you leave home, because they will 

 while the parade is happening. 

On Monday, the staff of Dark Owl Records will be wearing sweater vests.

Tuesday night is the Boy Scouts’ Court of Honor. The BSA will name its first-ever 

– the rank just above Eagle Scout. So far, no scout has attained the coveted position of 

, but we have heard that two local boys, Franklin Wilson and Barton Donovan, have earned the 

, which is a prerequisite for the rank. Well done, Frank and Barty.

Wednesday afternoon is the City-Wide Fitness Fair at the Rec Center. Last year’s event was canceled, as it was held on the same day and at the same time as the Fried Chicken and Cigarette Fair.

This year’s event, however, promises to be a huge success, as they have secured a large corporate sponsorship from The Intelligence Group International – who will provide free prostate screenings, mammograms, and surgically-embedded government monitoring devices. 

Thursday morning, the National Weather Service and National Security Agency have scheduled a giant sandstorm. 

Friday is an oasis. Only a metaphor for something unattainable. A haunting dream of meaning for our lives, but don’t look! Turn your head. Your life is here. Stay 

. You are 

. You are 

. That’s it. Yes. Goooood. 

We’ve contacted the Night Vale Zoo, hoping to find out more information on how dogs behave in packs. Perhaps these skilled animal experts could give us some insight into how to catch these dogs, or at least understand them. 

Night Vale Zoo Director Emily Munton told us that all animals prefer tiny cages and scheduled food pellet consumption, and that it didn’t make sense that 

 animals would want to wander freely about town. She added a high-pitched roar, followed by a watery gurgling sound, and then our conversation was ended by repeated, cloudless thunderclaps. 

A reminder to anyone looking for fun on a budget today in Night Vale: it’s free admission day at the Night Vale Museum of Forbidden Technologies.

As always, the museum features many fascinating permanent exhibits, including the cheap, pollution-free source of energy created by Nikola Tesla, multiple time machines (some of them not yet invented), and pocket calculators (which were outlawed by the City Council 22 years ago for undisclosed reasons).

Along with that, there is a temporary exhibit demonstrating the many exciting and extremely dangerous uses for lasers.

Be sure to splurge on the guidebook at the Museum Store, as the exhibits themselves are entirely shrouded with thick burlap at all times, and all explanatory plaques have been blacked out with permanent marker.

The Museum of Forbidden Technologies. If you don’t know about it, we may or may not have it!

And now a word from our sponsor:

You come home. The lights are off. You get an uneasy feeling. Suddenly, the phone rings. You remember that you do not have a phone. It rings some more.

You do not know what to do. Then you remember that, yes, you 

 own a phone. Why 

 you own a phone? 

The phone is still ringing. Ha ha ha ha ha! How silly to think you didn’t own a phone. It rings again. You smile, and shrug, and answer the ringing phone. It is still dark.

“Hello?” you say.

 a whispery, gender-indeterminate voice tells you. 

 it says.

You turn on the light. You laugh again, wondering why it took you so long to turn on the light. “Gosh, it was dark!” you think.

 the voice asks.

You hang up, glad you remembered to buy Tropicana Orange Juice, at least.

Tropicana Pure Premium Orange Juice is made from the freshest oranges, with no added flavors or preservatives.

Also, you should get caller ID! It’s the 21st century; how do you not have caller ID? Really.

Tropicana.

This just in: two more schoolchildren were attacked by the wild dogs this morning near the playground at Night Vale Elementary School. One of the boys was taken to Night Vale General with treatable leg injuries.

The other boy, we understand, was unharmed, because he was a better boy, and more loved by the Angels.

We’ve also received confirmation that a handful of mangy curs broke into the Senior Center, stole their televisions, and made the internet stop working.

This has gotten out of hand, ladies and gentlemen. We simply cannot live in fear for our safety because of wild dogs. Allow me a brief editorial here, if you would:

First off, please, have your pets fixed. It’s an inexpensive and quick process. You can take your dog or cat to the Night Vale SPCA, to your local veterinarian, or to Big Rico’s Pizza. Rico studies taxidermy as a hobby, so he’s happy to help out in whatever way he can.

Second, many of these dog packs are formed by dogs that are not raised to be loved, but bred to fight. Trainers are teaching these dogs everything from jujitsu to kickboxing to knife work. This is simply unacceptable. Dog fighting is illegal, cruel to animals, and a danger to society when these dogs are untethered.

But we are a strong, united community here in Night Vale. We must stand up to violence!

Our town was founded by peace-loving imperialist conquerors who, to escape taxation, overwhelmed a potentially violent race of indigenous people and founded this beautiful city on principles of family, fortitude, fence-building, and friendly propaganda.

Let’s not forget our long-standing town motto: 

That is the motto of a determined, unified community.

And now, the weather!

[“

” by 

]

Ladies and gentlemen, good news! Mayor Pamela Winchell called a press conference moments ago, declaring an end to our dog pack terror.

The mayor announced that the dogs were 

 actually dogs, just some plastic bags caught in the breeze that people 

 for wild dogs.

“There are no wild dogs in Night Vale,” she said. “And if there were, they’d be sweet little dogs with big, meaningless eyes and tongues like flypaper!”

The plastic bags, meanwhile, have been safely returned to the Dog Park from whence they came, and which is to remain unknowable and unremembered.

Journalists asked about the injuries and aftermath of this morning’s dog pack related crimes; the mayor responded with a 

. She promptly shook the podium off its base and whispered through gritted teeth, “Plastic bags. 

.”

The Sheriff’s Secret Police then ethically kettled the pool of reporters, gently coercing them with pepper spray. Most were taken away peacefully in handcuffs and black hoods.

Thank goodness it was all a misunderstanding!

Dear listeners, I don’t want to say I told you so, but wasn’t I right when I said we were a determined, resilient little town? In the face of wild beasts, we did not crumble, we did not back down. We stood eye to eye with violence, and it blinked first. 

And, that is our show! Thank you for listening, listeners!

Stay tuned next for the popular advice program Dr. Brandon. This week, Dr. Brandon offers a step-by-step on how to remove your own appendix without surgery.

The sky tonight is a soft, quivering green. The wind is calm, but prepared. Get your sleep, Night Vale, and don’t forget to dream.

Goodnight.

Episode 100 - Toast


 [Cecil Baldwin]: I know many of you have a few things you’d like to say. So let me start things off:

Welcome to Night Vale. 

 [James Urbaniak]: Hi folks. Leonard Burton here, host of Night Vale Community Radio. Or I was once. I’m not anymore. Anyway… I appeared suddenly at this microphone holding a champagne flute, so I suppose I must be giving a toast. Congratulations. Bon voyage. I’m excited about the new baby, the brand new career.. the graduation, your 100th birthday, whatever is being celebrated. Whatever time is being marked, well done! You’ve done it. Or are about to. Heh heh. What is this party, anyway? Cecil! Is that you? Why, you don’t look a day older than… when you first started working for me. 

 [Mara Wilson]: You know what’s delicious? Mice. I found out recently I’m allergic though, so if you’ve been noticing more mice in your house, it’s because I get a rash whenever I eat them. Sorry. Everyone’s staring at me now. Oh, and Teddy Williams just fainted. Acting like he’s never seen an old woman without a face holding a glass of Merlot and a microphone. Whom do you think refolds all of your dollar bills into origami spiders and staples them to your ceiling while you sleep, Teddy? Whom? 

This is good wine. [sips] What? Don’t look shocked. Can’t an old woman without a face take a drink of wine without public judgment? Just because I don’t have a mouth. Oh, I’ve spilled a little down my dress. Nevermind, that’s just blood. What was I saying? Sorry about the mice infestations everywhere. Maybe if it’s such a bother for you, you could eat them yourselves. Like I said, they’re delicious. Not.. super flavorful. It’s more about the texture, I guess. 

Anyway, your future will be filled with love and joy. I can say that much. I don’t mean it but I can say it. [sips] Wow, that’s really good. Cheers! 

 [Annie Savage]: I, uh, I’m Diane Crayton. I’m very sorry to cut this short, I have to go, Josh has a dance recital tonight. He grew several extra legs just for this recital. He would be so disappointed. This is great, it’s great. I’m sorry, Josh is getting impatient. I know because he always grows horns when he’s impatient. Cheers, everyone!

(Mark Gagliardi): Hi folks I’m uh John Peters, you know, the farmer? 

 [Emma Frankland]: Ugh. Yes John, we always know. You’re a farmer, we get it.

: Oh, OK Sheriff. But I’m happy to be here, happy to be anywhere. As a farmer, I have to think a lot about statistics. For instance, statistically, the world is unlikely to have happened. And so as a pragmatic fella, I have to assume that it didn’t, and that what I’m experiencing is a manifestation of my own denial about the ghastly nothing that surrounds me. To sum up, congratulations! Great party I’m imagining here. 

[Meg Bashwiner]: Hi, I’m Deb, a sentient patch of haze. And I’m here to give a toast on behalf of Ritz crackers. You know how you humans have hands, because you’re mentally weak and unable to lift objects with your mind? And you know how you might accidentally jam your hand against something, and a finger might bend painfully back, back so far that the bone snaps? A gunshot within your own body? Pain. [laughs] Unbelievable pain. But before the agony, first comes the simple clean snap. Separation. Pop. Ritz crackers: when you think Ritz, think about breaking your finger!

Also, congratulations. This seems like a.. pitifully mortal affair.

 [Jackson Publick]

 Hello Night Vale. If you are seeing this, then there must be some sort of party going on that I am not at. I prepared this video from prison, in case there might be a future party that I can’t get to.

 Or that I wasn’t invited to, because I don’t think anyone truly likes us.

 Enough self-pity! We find meaning within ourselves, without waiting for a meeting to be assigned to us! And if anyone doesn’t like it, we burn them alive!!!

 Right right. And also, congratulations to uh, whoever this party we’re not at is for. Whatever reason you’re having a party, good job on that. I’m uh, glad it happened.  

I can’t state an emotional response to an event that is still unknown to me, but there is a high probability that I would be happy about this party, yes, except if you’re hearing this then I am not at the party, which means there is a higher probability that I am not happy about it.

 OK, great. Violet, anything you wanna add? 

 I don’t trust recorded communication. You never know what the government will do with it! I’ll just say congratulations the next time I see everyone!

 OK then. Cheers, y’all.

[Kate Jones]: Happiness is pretty popular, I guess. Everyone’s always trying to be happy, so I don’t really want to be happy. But I am and it’s fine, I guess. Once I ironically went to a Katy Perry concert, but ended up having a great time. Especially the finale, where she peeled off all her skin and proclaimed that beauty is right here. And then she pulled out her own heart and swatted it like a beach ball toward her backup dancers. But then I found out that James Blake used to do the same thing at his shows, so anyway, what I’m trying to say is this is… nice. Or whatever. You’re nice. Good job attempting to be happy.

 [Maureen Johnson]: Yeah, I agree with Michelle. I tried to be happy once when I was 13 just to prove a point. I only made it a couple of weeks, and I gave up when I found out that other people were copying me. I’m happy now, happy I’m here. Also, I’m not mad anymore. No one asked, Maureen, geez! That’s not true though. I asked. I asked myself, “Maureen, are you still angry?” and then I answered that question out loud just now. Anyway, we’re cool, OK? 

 Ugh, did you just say “cool”?

 NO. 

[Erica Livingston]: Hello, I am Maggie Penebaker and this is my husband.. 

 [Christopher Loar]: ..Donald Penebaker. 

 If you’d like a joke at the start of this toast, press 1. [laughs] That’s just some telephone menu humor! Now most of you have probably spoken to us at osme point or another, when you’ve called any of your local services and gone through our telephone tree. But today isn’t about us, it’s about a..

 ..celebration..

..of..

..love.

 Here’s to you! Here’s to love! Here’s to our town in which love happens. All of your..

..electric bills..

 ..are due..

 ..immediately. 

 Failure to pay might result in..

 ..a meteor strike.

 Have a great..

..party..

 ..everyone! 

 [Kevin R. Free]: Hiiiiiiiiiiiiii all you beautiful happy people! Unfortunately, I couldn’t be there because I was told that if I try to enter Night Vale, you will all attack me! And while that is very welcoming, I’m just too busy in Desert Bluffs 2. But I’m sending this tape to congratulate you. Congratulations! Oh, for those that don’t know me, I’m Kevin.

[Lauren Sharpe]: And I’m Lauren.

 Oh yes heh, Lauren Mallard is here too. Remember her? 

 Most of you might remember me as your boss, when Strexcorp owned your little town. I’ve spent the last couple of years dry-lipped and starving and..

 [giggles]

 ..[cheerfully] wandering in endless looping desert Otherworld, before stumbling here on this town that is just like the town once I lived in.

 And we are tickled to have you here, Lauren! Especially once I explained to you that I’m in charge now, not Strexcorp! [seriously] I’m in charge. [chuckles] [cheerfully] And happy to do it! 

 Yes! Yes it took some um… [beat] explaining. [sadly] But I do understand that now. 

 Well, we won’t take up any more of your time! I know that your hearts must be bursting with joy right now.

 And nothing makes us happier than bursting hearts! [both giggling]

 Boom! 

 Oh there it (goes)..

 Oh Lauren..

[both laugh heartily]

 We just wanted to send you this video of smiling! 

 Yes, Night Vale, watch us smile! 

[unsettling noises]

 [Felicia Day]: What are they doing? I’ve never seen a living thing do that!

 Turn that off! Turn that tape recorder off right-

 [Molly Quinn]: Hi, Melony Pennington here. I don’t know who any of you are, but it seems like a good time to say, um, yay! You seem so happy. So that’s good, I think. People can be happy for nefarious reasons, I suppose, so I should temper my comfort a bit. Anyway, while sitting through whatever strange ceremony we just sat through, I fixed some of the bugs in one of my first programming projects. See? 

[Fred the OS computer voice]:

Welcome to human joy. I a.m. Computer. I brought you a gift.

The computer is printing out a picture of a gift-wrapped box. Thanks, Computer! 

 You are welcome, Melony.

 [Wil Wheaton]: I just wanna add that I’m so happy for this day and I’m so very proud of you both. It’s been a real honor to help cater this event. I hope you like the cake. I made it from scratch, using farm fresh cream, eggs, red snapper and ground cumin.

 Thank you, person next to me. I don’t remember your name.

 It’s Earl Harlan. Melony, we came to this together. We’ve been friends for years.

 Computer simulates happiness for humanity.

 OK, shutting you down now.

[Symphony Sanders]: Hi, I’m sure most of you know me. 

[Aliee Chan]: Tamika, you’re the best!

 [giggles] No, Basimah, you’re the best. Unless you mean at unarmed combat, then I’m the best. 

Given the occasion, I thought it might be nice to read a passage from one of my favorite books. This is Sonnet 43 from Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s “Sonnet from the Portuguese”. 

How do I love thee? 

Let me count the ways. 

I love thee when thou bringest coffee in bed,

Or suggest that we go to brunch instead.

I eat French toast 

But take bites of thine eggs

Like, oh dude, 

I love thee with so much grace,

And praise,

And poise and style and pizazz.

Each day’s most quiet need and all that jazz.

Love thee just as much as I love the cave.

That cave in our yard from which voices sound,

Demanding all our smiles, tears, and breath.

When the voices speak,

Time goes all unwound.

Merciful cave,

We grovel, offer flesh.

We will enter the cave,

Crawl underground.

I shall but love thee better after death. 

A famous love poem, but for a good reason. May you never forget that at the heart of any strong relationship, there is a cave. A cave you will both someday crawl into and never be heard from again. Cheers! 

 Cheers!

[Jasika Nicole]: It is such a big day. As Mayor, I declare that today is a big day. I always knew today would come. Just look at any calendar and you can see every single day that will come. They’re all laid out, right there. For a long time, I thought I wouldn’t get to see today in person, but here I am. Our time and our place matching there within the simple geometry of a monthly planner.

The City Council sends their regards as well. Before they left, they glowered and glowed, and I could hear a soft growl. Not the growl of madness or of being mad; it was the kind of growl you hear from rainwater drains along the curbs late at night. A sweet, caring growl. 

Also, our director of emergency press conferences, Pamela, came too. She wanted to wish you the best.

 [Desiree Burch]: Yes. Thank you, Mayor Cardinal. People of Night Vale. People below Night Vale. And all of the people prepositionally existing somewhere. I’m here to tell you that the planets are all wrong! I have spent weeks staring into the sky, and I can tell you the planets are all wrong. Misaligned, sure, but more than that they are so small! Planets should not be that small! Thank you for listening. Be safe, Night Vale.

 What Pamela means is, congratulations.

 I refuse to congratulate anything that is not the right size!

Oh sorry everyone, I’m being told we need to move this inside because of, well you know..

The weather. 

[“Second Song” by 

]

[Marc Evan Jackson]: Yeah, sure, whatever. I have nearly infinite powers, so it’s pretty basic helping you to a mike.

(Retta): No need to brag. OK, well. Cecil, I remember when you finally grew old enough to join the bowling team. Who’s this kid think he is? We all thought. And you have to be honest with yourself, you weren’t that good at the time. But you were friendly, and entertaining to talk to. Sometimes it’s more important to have delightful people around you, than it is to succeed at some arbitrary goal you’ve given yourself. That’s one of the many things I’ve learned on my way from Little Josie Ortiz to Old Woman Josie.

And speaking of delightful people, Carlos. You might not have noticed but we’re suspicious of newcomers around here. We tend to point and shout, “Interloper!” But you understood that people are just silly about change, and the older we get, the sillier about change we get. Carlos, you are a delightful person. I don’t know how much longer I have, I guess none of us do. Except those of us who peeked at our death day in the hall of public records. But I lived long enough to see you two on this day. I surrounded myself with delightful people, you can’t hope for a better life than that. Erika! Help me down from here. They’re tired of listening to an old woman talk. They all wanna eat cake. Erika!

 Yeah OK, I’m coming. Whatever!

 [Hal Lublin]: I’m gonna get emotional, but I’ll try to hold it together. You know, Cecil and I first met at one of these things. Seems like we should have met earlier than that. I had dated his sister for a while. But Cecil’s busy, he- he serves his community. He really gives himself to his community. Who do you live for, you know? Who do you give yourself to? Those are questions we should all be asking ourselves. There are many questions we should all be asking ourselves. Question everything, I guess, would be my main advice. Now the Sheriff is making throat-cutting gestures to me, indicating that I should stop talking about that. And also to threaten that they’ll cut my throat if I keep going. Sorry, Sam!

And Carlos. Unlike most of us, you don’t tell yourself a story of what you want the world to be. You wait for the world to tell you what it is. And then you take it as it reveals itself to you. What a rare and precious gift! When I met you I could tell you saw me for me, not for any stories you’d been told about me. I love you, Carlos. And I love you, Cecil. We don’t always see eye to eye, but more and more, we’ve stood shoulder to shoulder, members of the same family. I’m getting teary-eyed. I said I would!

To Cecil and Carlos. I’m proud to be able to call you family! 

[Dylan Marron]: I said once that a home is just a grouping of object connected by a shared personal experience of time. Which was just a fancy way of really just asking you to move in with me, and um, and it worked. But I wasn’t wrong, and I know now that a relationship is just a grouping of moments connected by that same shared personal experience of time. What it means to make a life together is to take the experience of two different lives and choose to interpret them as a single shared narrative. So in other words, changing the story about you, or the story about me into a story about us. Do you remember before the throat surgery, when I sounded like this? 

[Jeffrey Cranor]: Science is neat. 

[Dylan Marron]: [chuckling] Well, science 

 neat and I still believe that. But I know now that a lot of things are neat. Having a quiet breakfast with another person is neat. Calling someone over to experience a particularly noisy sunset is neat. This town is neat. Night Vale is neat. Love is neat. Love is, is very neat actually and um, and you are neat. [emotionally] That first night when we sat on the trunk of my car and looked at the lights above the Arby’s? When I got up to leave I looked at you, and I tried to think of how to say everything I was feeling. But I’ve never really been good at describing feelings, I’m only good at describing facts, and love, love isn’t a fact. You know? Love, it’s it’s a hunch at first and then later it’s a series of decisions, a lifetime of decisions. That’s love. And, I didn’t, I didn’t know how to express that and so I just said: “I’m glad I decided to call you.” [tearing up] And now, um, tonight, I say I’m glad again, for this decision and, all the decisions that will come every day after. Which is to say, scientifically speaking of course, speaking from the point of view of mere facts and logic and you know, what with the science and all…  I just thought that it was time for us to make a life together. 

 I guess it’s my turn now. [chuckles] It’s funny, I-I-I make my living speaking to you all and now I’m up here and - I don’t quite know what to say! [clears throat] In the last few years, we have experienced truly terrifying things. And wonderful things. We have lost our town, and regained our town. We have met new people, we have met incredible new people. I don’t have to tell you that Carlos has perfect hair, and teeth like a military cemetery, you have eyes, most of you. Sorry, Faceless Old Woman. I-I don’t need to tell you that his voice is oaky, or that his enthusiasm about science is inspiring and also [sexy voice] deeply - erotic. So instead, I will tell you this. It hasn’t always been an easy few years. But through it all, just- just knowing that Carlos was there. That no matter what else happened, we would come back to each other, holding hands like two kids flirting on a first date. That’s what kept me believing in this town. My love for Night Vale and my love for Carlos are the same love. It is the love of someone who has given their life completely to something beyond themselves. I once described Night Vale as a friendly desert community, where the sun is hot, the moon is beautiful, and mysterious lights pass overhead while we all pretend to sleep. And it still is. I know nowhere friendlier. I know nowhere hotter. The moon is still beautiful. Mysterious lights still pass overhead, and Carlos, [emotionally] I can’t wait for every night I get to pretend to sleep next to you. [beat] Um, whew, that’s it for the party. Thanks to everyone who came and all the kind things you said. 

Stay tuned next for a drunk, [triumphantly] newly married couple, long after the well-wishers have left, piling up bags of garbage and stacking chairs in a rented banquet hall, because they want to get their deposit back. 

 [Flor de Liz Perez] Goodnight!

Cecil: Oh yes, thanks, Lacy. And good night, Night Vale, and 

 person who can hear my voice, 

Good night. 

: It’s always darkest before the dawn, we are often reassured by people who are totally wrong about how the sun works. 

Episode 101 - Guidelines for Disposal


You are swimming distance from a shore you cannot see. If you choose the wrong direction, you will drown. If you do not make a decision, you will drown.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Despite an extensive public outreach campaign, there is still some confusion over which items are accepted at the new landfill facility that opened this fall in the Barista District, to replace the old outdated landfill facility, also located in the Barista District. Mandatory annual Spring Cleaning Day is just around the corner, so it’s imperative that all citizens know how to properly dispose of the wreckage of their lives. I have some guidelines from the Sanitation Department, received via the pneumatic tube that I discovered beneath the floorboards of my office, under layers of cement bricks, chains and padlocks, [chuckling] as if someone wanted to keep it sealed forever!

But before we get to that, the lost and found. 

A cell phone has been found in the drainage ditch on Drainage Ditch Road. It contains no phone numbers of contact info, but there is a series of photos in the camera that I will now describe, so that the owner might recognize it. Photo 1: a closeup of what looks like charred bone. Photo 2: a man in a horse suit staring directly into the lens. Photo 3: shapes in the dark, reaching. Photo 4: a puddle of viscous liquid, shot at a Dutch angle in black and white. If this is your phone, you can claim it here at Night Vale Community Radio.

Another found item: a group of giant cardboard boxes have been found scattered haphazardly around the empty fields behind the abandoned missile silo. For reasons they cannot explain, Night Vale citizens have been crawling into the boxes. Most haven’t come back. The few who did emerge describe the interior as an elaborate puzzle maze, ending in a complicated array of levers and dials, which must be engaged in the correct combination in order to regain freedom. When one escapee was asked by box-entering hopefuls for a hint as to what the correct combination was, she responded smugly: “The dissatisfaction of failure is equally important to the satisfaction of success.”

If these sound like your boxes, please pick them up from the field. If that sounds like your smugness, get a grip on yourself, Lisa! 

Now, the official guidelines from the Sanitation Department. Please, do not bring any physical objects to the new landfill facility. You can bring any item that you no longer want, as long as it does not take up physical space. The physical objects must instead be brought to the old landfill which no longer exists, as it has been replaced by the new landfill which, as stated, will not accept physical objects. 

To clarify. You cannot bring old televisions. You cannot bring old refrigerators, you cannot bring old cars. But. You can bring the 

 of the backseat where you lost your virginity. You cannot bring old radios, but you can bring the song that reminds you of getting your braces tightened at the orthodontist, that same year when the popular bullies stole your school pictures to laugh loudly about how ugly you were.

You cannot bring your old braces, nor the bullies. But you can bring the beauty you eventually found in yourself by doing beautiful things.

Um.. there’s a section for recycling. This is where you can put things that aren’t currently useful to you, but might be turned into something more useful by someone else. Like your current relationship, or your indifferent opinions about 

 1 and 2. You can bring any habitual destructive behavior. And also the sheer exhaustion of constantly working to contain it. You can bring the memory of the smell of the vanilla incense, if it reminds you of something that’s not necessarily negative, but is nostalgic to the point of discomfort. You cannot bring the smell itself, as smells are made up for matter, which is physical.

There is a.. sealed chamber for all messages, emails and missed calls that you dread returning. You may speak these messages into the chamber and simply walk away.

More on these guidelines in a moment, but first, a correction, sent to us via ham radio by listener Lucinda Fierro. In reference to our previous report on found items, Lucinda informs me that a group of giant cardboard boxes is actually called a 

 of boxes. A group of complicated levers and dials is called a 

 of levers and dials, not an array, as I earlier report. We apologize for these errors, and remind Lucinda Fierro that a group of pedants is called a 

. 

In sadder news, Old Woman Josie has returned to the hospital with further complications from her broken hip last year. It seems that certain infections that were thought to be gone, are not gone. Doctors said they were optimistic. Although not necessarily about her case, just more in general. 

I will, of course, keep you constantly updated. 

Back to the new landfill guidelines. You can bring an entire year to the landfill. But you are limited to one per resident. So please make sure you’re selecting the right year. We invite you to remember that a year that seems uniquely terrible could in fact be merely the gateway to an era of terror, the launching point and not the peak. Choose wisely. 

Remember, too, before you throw away an entire year, that any given unit of time also contains positive effects whose shape aren’t apparent yet. Because the universe doesn’t function in increments of human-made time, but on an unbroken plane of incidents and outcome. But all that said, feel free to throw out a year if you want. 

There 

 an area for dumping things that you aren’t yet sure if you regret. For example, this is where you can put the crush you have on your platonic friend. The moments where you catch yourself distracted by their mouth, when they’re speaking instead of fully hearing them. The overcompensating excitement to display [fake-excitedly] when they get a new partner! And the satisfaction you suppress when they break up. This is where you put that one night when you were both a little drunk and ended up fooling around. This is where you put the next morning, when you both pretended nothing happened, and you laughed and joked around like normal, or a slightly exaggerated version of normal. When they left for work in too much of a hurry, and you let your coffee get cold while you just sat there on the couch, wondering if you should text, but any message you could think of seemed to be distorted by coded significance. “Thanks for a lovely evening” was too loaded, while simply “left the key under the mat” or “good luck with your meeting” was too casual, almost cold. But the absence of a message would also send a message. In the end, you settled on all three, placing “thanks for a lovely evening” in the middle of the other two, as one might put condoms on the checkout between a roll of scotch tape and a few apples. 

You cannot bring scotch tape nor apples here. Please, stop bringing apples. They will not biodegrade here, nothing biodegrades here. Apples are only accepted at the old landfill. Which has been closed due to the opening of the new landfill.

You cannot bring piles of mysterious magnetic shavings that blew into your yard after that last big storm. But you can bring the sounds you heard in your house after the electricity went out. 

Please, do not bring any lost cell phones nor a clattering of lost boxes. 

Whew! These goodlines are really detailed. [mutters under his breath] Maybe the Sanitation Department needs to get over itself. 

Oh, I mean, I would never say that. Be-be-being um, being an objective journalist but I can report that others might say it. Reporting strong opinions that I’ve never heard expressed by anyone else, but that someone somewhere might be thinking, is an important part of being an objective journalist.

Anyway. We pause now to bring you the weather.

[“Letters” by 

]

There 

 a place at the landfill where you can put that summer. You know, that summer? You went to the beach that summer, everything seemed great. You had cool sunglasses that made you feel cool. Everybody’s coconut-scented bodies were sliding around on each other, and you did things you weren’t proud of. You don’t remember what they were anymore, it was so long ago, but they’re always there, those things. Always hanging around in a sandy corner of your mind. Along with the cool sunglasses you lost, when you stopped feeling cool. 

You remember that a black hole opened up in the sky that summer, over the waves, and no one else saw. You looked straight into it. It slid open and closed like the aperture of a camera. You felt a deep desire to be sucked into it, but no matter how hard you willed your body upward, you stayed stuck to the street, surrounded by the scream-bursts of people on the rollercoaster down the boardwalk, and the monotonous drone of the roving street peddler mumbling as if to themself. Water, sunscreen, sumbrellas. Water, sunscreen, sumbrellas. Unsettled, you got a churro from a passing cart, and it did not sit well. In fact, it feels like that churro is still a part of you. You never digested it. It’s still inside of you, attached to the lining of your stomach like a parasite. It might.. be growing. It might be absorbing your nutrients and gaining strength.

And then there’s the car, that charcoal-gray car that started following you afterwards. You couldn’t prove anything, it was never closer than two blocks away. Sometimes you think you still see it parked across the street from Ralph’s when you come out with your groceries, or when you go to the bank. Or when you’re driving home from work. But then you think, no! I’m imagining things. And you drive out to your childhood home, which is now abandoned, and no one knows you go back there sometimes. And you fall asleep on the downstairs sofa while listening to the broken gate creaking in the wind. You vaguely remember you have to clean everything out of the house before demolition next week. You wonder how you’re gonna get rid of all these things. I-I-I-I can’t bring the downstairs sofa or the broken gate to the new landfill facility, you think. But I could take those.. or other physical objects to the old landfill, except it’s been closed because of the opening of the new landfill.

You did a great job listening to the guidelines from the Sanitation Department.

Another thing you can’t bring to the new landfill is the Duran Duran poster that you bought to hide the hole that you punched in your wall, after that summer that you went to the beach. Mice began nesting there almost immediately and reproducing at an alarming rate. Every day after school you put on work gloves and peeled up the bottom of the poster and reached into the hole, and scooped out handfuls of baby mice, and threw them out your bedroom window in a frenzy, like pailing water out of a sinking boat. You spent so much time doing this that your grades dropped and you lost weight. And still, you hear them scratching all night long, chewing, and shredding, and rustling, and reproducing. One day, you lifted the poster and instead of mice there was a black hole, a miniature of the one you saw over the water years before. It slid open and closed, like the aperture of a camera. You haven’t gone upstairs in years. 

You cannot bring your mother’s half-finished needlepoint that will never be completed, and so is now finished in its own way. You cannot bring the stain on the carpet from when you and your friends snuck in a mixture of everyone’s parents’ alcohol, collected in a jar, wine and gin and beer and tequila. 

You cannot bring your journals, but you can bring the secrets in them, even if they’re written in a code that you can no longer decipher. 

You can bring the view from the attic that looks toward the high school track, where you would sit and watch a certain somebody during practice, and tell yourself it wasn’t creepy as long as you don’t get the binoculars. 

You cannot bring your long dead childhood dog’s favorite tennis ball that you aren’t yet aware is under the downstairs sofa, where you still sometimes sleep when you imagine that the charcoal-gray car is following you. But where you will no longer sleep after the demolition next week. 

You cannot bring your deceased pet. But you can bring the moment when she woke you up in the middle of the night with her last breaths, and you cried into her fur. 

You can bring the ghost of your grandmother that you saw many years 

 she died. You can’t bring the fox with human eyes, the one that they used to tell stories about at camp. The one that you saw running on two legs beside your car one foggy night when you were coming back from a party in college, and the next day you found out your grandmother died that night.

You can bring recurring nightmares to the new landfill, but not fever dreams at this time. Fever dreams must be taken to the recycling center in Pine Cliff. You can bring the decoy 

 dreams that you get when you are abducted by non-humans or government officials that help you repress the memory of the actual abduction, but it is not recommended that you do so. Those dreams serve a valuable purpose.

There has also been some confusion about whether or not we take physical pain, because it is both physical and intangible. Unfortunately, we do not have a way of processing this right now, but we are able to take the fear of pain, which we think you’ll find counts for a lot. 

Nothing that you bring here, of course, is truly lost. But it will remain hidden from view… forever.

Please double check to make sure nothing you wish to keep is attached to anything you plan to discard. If you still have any questions about the items we do and do not accept, please call ahead before bringing them in, thank you for your cooperation, signed: the Night Vale Sanitation Department.

Well, listeners. I know I’ll certainly be utilizing the new landfill this spring! You know, I’m finally gonna tackle the underground passage way that connects my basement to someone else’s basement. I don’t know whose basement it is. It would be inappropriate to walk upstairs into their kitchen to find out. There are certain social boundaries that must be observed to maintain order. But I know they have a lot of the same things that I have in my basement. Stockpiled cases of the burning wood smoke flavor of La Croix, all family photos of mine, my own voice heard faintly through the basement door..

Anyway, that other basement is a nice place to go when I need to get away from it all. But a lot of emotional baggage accumulates in that passageway after a while, it really does.

Stay tuned next for a 12-hour binaural meditation track of a rain stick being used to tenderize meat. Happy purging, Night Vale!

And good night.

 There’s no harm in trying. Really depends on what you’re trying. Either way, give it a go. It’s probably fine. 

Episode 102 - Love is a Shambling Thing


Look at it from the raindrop’s point of view.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Yesterday, of course, was Valentine’s Day, our first in four years, after that last Valentine’s Day, which destroyed much of Night Vale and left many innocent victims buried under piles of rubble, and candy hearts. The city government built a large concrete dome over the Hallmarks store in the mini-mall downtown, thus keeping its dangerous sentiment from leaking into the outside world. Four employees of the store were unfortunately sealed inside, but there was just no time to remove them during the seven-month construction of the dome. It would have thrown everything off schedule. However, City Council has a renewed interest in love, since starting their on-again off-again romance with the Station Management here at Night Vale Community Radio. Currently their status is on, although they fight a lot, and their fights have caused considerable structural damage to the Arby’s and displaced a number of town citizens through time. So the Council wants to create a controlled, safe, Valentine’s celebration, in order to impress Station Management. Despite strong protests from the Night Vale citizens who do not believe there is any way to safely handle Valentine’s materials. City Council announced yesterday that Valentine’s was a celebration of love, and deemed that the official slogan of the day was “Love is”. 

More on that in a moment, but first, some.. [clears throat] Listeners, I am sorry to have to report what I next have to report. Old Woman Josie, your friend and mine but more my friend than yours, I, be-beyond Carlos she is who I am closest with in this strange and friendly town of ours and she is… 

[sad, despondent voice] Well, she is under hospice care at her home. There is no upside to this story, other than on the broadest, most distant view of time. This is not a surprise, but even with a long time to prepare for the worst, we are still in shock. As though we stepped out onto a sunny street and found ourselves falling into a lake, just on the liquid side of frozen and that is maybe the best way of describing it? I feel cold, barely able to act. My words feel slow, my hands tremble. Only Josie seems not upset about her own condition, she lies on her bed surrounded by the beings who describe themselves as angels and the woman, Alondra, who describes herself as Josie’s daughter. Josie smiled and said, “What a joy that I have gotten to live so long. What a relief that I don’t have to live forever.”

Anyone wanting to visit Josie and say their goodbyes, um.. please dig a hole in your backyard or any public garden, whisper your wishes for Josie into it and the angels will hear you. I know it’s illegal to acknowledge to acknowledge the existence of angels but right now I don’t care. Please understand that Josie has limited strength and even more limited time and she may not be able to see you at all, I… [clears throat] Of course I will keep you updated. But the trajectory is certain. Only the timeline isn’t known. I suppose the same is true for every person, but we are always surprised at the literal truth of it every time, over and over. 

And now listeners, the classified section. 

Lost: moths, all of them. Reward if found. Contact us by dialing numbers into your phone at random. If you were meant to reach us, you will. 

Notice: that veiled woman who sits motionless in the shadows of unlit parks at 3 AM gives really great relationship advice. Bring raw meat and never look directly at her.

The schedule of events at the public library is up. It’s just your name, listed as an event once an hour, with the word “cancelled” next to each. 

Found: something that you will never notice is gone and that we will never return. You don’t even remember having it, but you did have it, once. Not anymore.

The Night Vale Psychic and Medium Society would like to let you know the answers to all your future questions. These answers, in order: the porch light. Eight. Because we could. A distant star. Green. Also green. We’re sorry, but we have to. If you have any follow-up questions, then we won’t have done our job correctly.

This has been the classifieds. 

The City Council made careful preparations for a day of [sultry voice] love. They put up streamers around City Hall, and reserved a table at Tourniquet for a fancy dinner date with Station Management. The rest of us also made preparations for Valentine’s by stocking up on bottled water and canned goods, and discussing with loved ones where we would meet if we needed to evacuate. Several volunteer firefighters kept a brave watch for candy hearts, or teddy bears with anatomically correct glistening hearts stitched onto their bellies. The City Council revised their earlier slogan saying they had misspoken. Their slogan was not “Love is” but “Love is a shambling thing”. They nodded vehemently, whatever head-like protrusion the multi-body entity uses to nod and repeated, “Love is a shambling thing”, in a whisper before dissipating into the air like evaporating liquid.

Apparent leader of five-headed dragons, Hadassah McDaniels, has responded to the fatal shooting of one of her brother’s five heads with an understandable mix of grief, and rage, and fire-breath. She has staged a several week long protest outside of City Hall, in which she peacefully held up signs and peacefully ate, mauled, or burned anyone attempting to enter or exist the building. There has still been no sighting of word of Hiram since the shooting. We reached out to the five-headed dragons to see if they had any updates on that front, but they took our microphone from us and devoured it in a quick, twirling series of bites like it was a cob of corn. I did not get any follow-up to that, since I fled screaming before they could put me through the same treatment, but I will take this response as a sign that they also do not have news about Hiram. 

Hadassah has said that she seeks justice. Specifically, the justice she seeks is pain inflicted on Night Vale equal to or greater than the pain inflicted upon her own soul. She said, “You don’t understand the true nature of your splintered world. There are terrible forces surrounding you held together in a fragile truce. That truce will end, and with it, your town.” Then she saw Jeremy Godfrey emerge from City Hall, there to pay a small municipal fine for wearing unfashionable sweaters, and she set his hair on fire.

And now a word from our sponsors. Today’s show has been brought to you by Sears. Sears would like you to know that they offer quality products at low prices. And also that there was a miscommunication and they thought this was a television station. They prepared a TV ad and aren’t sure what to do now. Um, I guess we’ll just describe what you would have seen, had you seen this commercial on TV. This is not the level of quality we want you to think of when you think of Sears, but here goes.

Exterior: a house. Snow drifts down onto yard already piled with snow. A warm glow on the snow, reflected light. We pan up. It is the light from the house’s windows. So cozy, so warm! Why would anyone ever want to leave and go to Sears? What kind of commercial is this? Wait, stick with us. Interior: living room. A woman looks out the window, bites her lip. “Bad weather,” she thinks. “I’m not going outside.” We don’t hear this as narration, the performer expresses this with her face, she’s a great actor. I wish you could have seen her, she doesn’t even talk in this commercial, all visual performance it’s, what a waste. So bad weather, she doesn’t want to go outside. She goes to the computer, loads up Amazon. It’s not Amazon, because we don’t want to advertise another company, but it’s like clearly Amazon, you know? We see her clicking on stuff, stuff she could be buying at Sears, but is instead buying on Amazon. 

Flash forward a day. She got next day shipping, I guess. Same house exterior, it’s still snowy, the snow is high, the pavement is icy. A mail truck pulls up. A mail carrier gets out. He has her package. We see her in the window, so happy about her decision to buy from Amazon. He starts up the drive to her, he slips on the ice. Her package goes flying. It says “fragile” in the package, so that’s probably ruined. He falls badly, fractures his leg in three places! We don’t know this just by looking at it, but the filming of the stunt didn’t go like it was supposed to, so I can tell you: fractured in three places. Horror on her face. She does a great job acting this scene, I really wish you could have seen it.

We’re now in a court room. She’s being sued! The jury looks stern. She’s going to love. All of her savings will go to the mail carrier, but he isn’t happy either. He is in incredible daily pain, and what is money going to do to fix that? No one. Is. Happy. 

We fade out on the two of them at their separate tables in court, both facing a future that is diminished, that is diminishing. Next time, get in your car and go to Sears. 

This has been a message from your sponsor.

Back to our Valentine’s report. How was it? Honestly, uneventful. Casualties were limited to a few neighborhoods, and only two out of three gas mains exploded. Most of the town isn’t completely burning, only a little scorched. As far as Valentine’s goes, it was a huge success. The date between City Council and Station Management also went well, as far as we can tell. Tourniquet’s entire building was enveloped in a thick fog that pulsed a strange blue, and there was the reverberant harmony of a children’s choir. When the fog lifted, every human customer in the restaurant had vanished and were replaced by figures shrouded in white cloth, slowly twirling in place. 

City Council and Station Management were.. intertwining their.. torso appendages and.. cooing. Ugh.

Oh, it does seem I got the slogan for yesterday wrong again. It was actually “Love is a shambling thing, grey-faced and gasping.” Ah, that’s pretty good branding. It’s very romantic. Wait, what was that? Oh, I’m being told that that’s still wrong. OK, hold on, let me figure this out. And in the meantime, let’s get to that weather.

[“Listening to TPM” by 

.]

“Love is a shambling thing, gray-faced and gasping. It moves in from the west, the setting sun behind it. Those who see it avert their eyes. Love stumbles and shutters, love grasps but is not grasped. It sees a man, and the man does not look away. Love reaches out a gray hand. The man touches the band just lightly, just on the palm, and the man feels heat inside of him. His heart is on fire. This is not a metaphor. His heart is on fire and so, soon, is his skin, his hair, his teeth become more and more visible as his face shrinks and melts away. Love watches dispassionately. Love does not love what it does, love only does it. Love does not have eyes and neither, now, does the man.

Love is a shambling thing. It climbs through a window into an infant’s bedroom. When one of the mothers comes in to check on her baby son, there is love too in the crib, curled up inside him. Love murmurs, and the baby spits restlessly. The baby does not burn, the baby will eventually burn, but by then he will not be a baby. The woman looks down at the ghastly form of love curled up beside her son and she thinks, “What have I done?” She cries, not because she is happy or sad, but because that is what her body needs to do next. Love rises from the crib and passes her without a glance. Love is a shambling thing. It shambles out of her home. 

[very unsettling music] Love, with skin that peels and pops and joints that moan and snap, climbs to the top of a tall building and surveys its surroundings. So many people. It opens its mouth. Its teeth are the only part of its body that look new and healthy. It has so many teeth! It yelps and howls, an inarticulate sermon of lost and loss, and everyone hears it. They hear it as a shudder in their stomach and hitch in their step. Love does not eat or drink, love separates its many teeth and consumes.

Love is a shambling thing, grey-faced and gasping. It moves out to the east, the night drawling closed behind it. Those who see it avert their eyes.”

So that’s the final version of the City Council’s slogan for Valentine’s Day. It’s.. um.. It’s catchy? They also sent over their current draft for a Night Vale Valentine’s Day logo design. It’s not really a logo per se, it’s an actual physical rusty bear trap, hidden in a set position below a pile of loose tissue paper in an undisclosed truck stop restroom. And I like it. Again, great branding. It’s very eye-catching, depending on how you look at it. 

We seem to have all made it through this Valentine’s Day, except those of us who didn’t, but any given day there are those of us who did not make it. Every day is a new opportunity for danger. Every day is another day survived. Every survival, another chance.. for love. 

From one who loves to all of you out therew ho love, 

Good night, Night Vale,

Good night.

 Live every day like it’s your first.

Episode 103 - Ash Beach


We make money the old-fashioned way. We chemically
convert lead into gold.

Welcome to Night Vale.

The Night Vale Tourism Board announced that after 12
years of super-fond site cleanup, Ash Beach reopened today to the public. The
Tourism Board’s new brochure shows a young happy family having a picnic lunch
and wearing respirator masks, building ash castles and flying kites against the
blackened sky. We’re landlocked here in the desert with no body of water in
sight, so back in the 1950’s, the city decided to create a public beach made
entirely out of municipally burned books that were deemed too dangerous or too
boring to reach.

Carlos and I are so excited about the reopening of the
beach. We are already planning a trip in the next few weeks with the family.
According to the Tourism Board, there will be a refurbished boardwalk there
with food trucks and carnival games. Beachgoers can stroll down the pier and
watch the surfers lie on their boards, as we all wait for the oceans to rise
dramatically enough that Night Vale finally has a waterfront.

This Friday Night, Dark Owl Records will be hosting an
album release party for Stevie Ray Vaughan’s new album called “Beyoncé”. Which
is a collection of instrumental covers of Leonard Cohen’s greatest hits.
Vaughan’s unique approach to music has always been to askew instruments
altogether and simply read the name of each chord aloud. Vaughan will be at the
store taking selfies with fans and asking everyone how he got here, and why he
cannot hold tangible objects.

Sunday at the Rec Center is the annual gun show
sponsored by the Night Vale chapter of the NRA. All patrons receive a free
trucker hat that reads “Guns don’t kill people, unless you shoot those people
with said gun and then they die. But other than that one specific situation,
we’ve never known a gun to kill anybody.” Gun dealers from all over the United
States will be at the show, selling handguns and hunting rifles and telling
fantastical stories about a mythical government that would try, even in the
slightest, to regulate gun ownership. The first 500 ticket buyers will have
their government-implanted tracking chips surgically removed for free.


We’re getting reports that the grand re-opening of Ash Beach is going.. well,
oh, not well as in good I mean well as in.. I’m not sure what to say next. So
the beach, which is completely black and not at all connected to any body of
water, is apparently really hot. And beachgoers are having a difficult time
getting the dark ash stains off their burning skin. Also, there are reports of
hazy humanoid figures emerging from the ash. They have long thin arms, gaping
mouths with hundreds of tiny square teeth, round glowing eyes, and they shimmer
in and out of visibility. Some witnesses reported hearing faint clicks and
crunches, like someone rapidly chewing egg shells.

Amber Akini and Wilson Levy are celebrating their
first wedding anniversary at Ash Beach today. They clam to have seen these
ephemeral beings and moments later, experienced a flood of memories that never
happened to them. Wilson remembered his wedding six years ago to his high
school girlfriend Tanya. The memory was so clear, Tanya in her strapless white
gown with ivory piping.. Ew. His best man Aiden accidentally dropping the ring
and comically chasing it as it rolled into the third row. The string trio
playing 

Pachelbel’s “Hey Ya” as ushers escorted guests into seats and pushed
the safety bars down firmly over their shoulders. But Wilson claimed he never
knew anyone named Tanya and was never married to anyone before Amber. Telling
this story, he had tears in his eyes. The fond memory of the wedding he never
had still fresh in his mind.

Amber remembered a vacation resort a few miles from
Mount Kilimanjaro. She was only eight years old, she was standing outside the
resort near her mother’s Toyota pickup truck. Her mother was speaking in Luau
to an elderly couple. The couple said they wanted to ride to a camp checkpoint
at the base of the mountain. Her mother offered them a ride as she was going to
the same place. Amber, her mother, and the couple shared the cramped bench
seat, as they rode toward the cloud-shrouded peak. The couple smelled like
coffee and brand new sleeping bags. They offered Amber some kashata and told
her about different types of birds.

Amber said that she had never been to Tanzania and
that her mother passed away when Amber was only three. Nor does Amber believe
in mountains, nor does she know what kashata is, and she doesn’t know a single
word of Luau, so the memory could not be real. But she could understand the
Luau in her memory, and could taste the soft coconut crunch of the kashata.

Wilson brushed Amber’s cheek and she kissed his wrist.
They both cried quietly as they laid out some small shovels and buckets, rubbed
UV protective lotion on their arms, unfolded beach chairs and elected a large
umbrella.

More on this story as it develops.


Good news, listeners. Five-headed dragon Hadassah McDaniels and her legion of
dragon lawyers, from whatever dragon world they’re from, have stopped crushing
local businesses. And eating pets. And setting fire to public parks. The bad
news is that we’re not certain what the dragons are doing right now. No one has
seen them in over a week. It’s like when you see a spider and then you turn
your head, and when you look back, that spider is gone. And that is the true
definition of horror, because you don’t know where that spider is, and you miss
it so much. It was a really cute spider!

The dragons were last seen visiting the Terrible Court
of the Distant Prince. It was difficult to say for certain that it was the
Distant Prince, because those who saw this visitation said it happened quite a
long way away. Witnesses reported that they definitely saw the dragons talking
with what looked like a young man wearing a crown, his form blurred as though
moving quickly, even though he was standing still. But he was partially hidden
by harbingers, as well as court shriekers and mangled servants. The witnesses
did not mention seeing any hollow-eyed weepers, so it may not have been the
Distant Prince at all. Maybe a Distant Viscount. At best, a Distant Earl. A
Distant Countess, even?

Listeners. Old Woman Josie’s daughter Alondra wanted
me to thank everyone for all of the good wishes and gifts to her and her dying
mother. She asked that people please stop sending flowers though. She has
nowhere to put them. And plus, flowers are sort of gross. “You realize that
flowers are just water and manure and seeds and dirt,” Alondra Ortiz said.
“They look and smell nice but just remember what the smell is made of. Gross!
Stop it,” she said. Then she added, “I mean if you already sent flowers,
they’re beautiful, thank you.” And then she rolled her eyes.

Carlos and I visited Josie last Saturday. We brought
her and Alondra a framed photo of Josie breaking ground at the New Old Night
Vale Opera House. For a picture that’s only a couple years old, Josie looks so
young. It’s her smile, I think. Her smile never aged. In the photo, she’s
wearing a hardhat, orange construction vest, tanned jodhpurs, and five-toed
running shoes. She’s holding a shovel filled with dirt in front of a sign that
says “Opera House: coming soon!” She was so proud of Night Vale that day. I
showed the picture to Josie who was lying in her bed, eyes open. She didn’t
respond. I wish I had visited sooner, but I was glad to have seen her again
before she leaves us. Carlos patted her hand and I kissed her forehead. I said,
“Josie, Carlos and I love you. As does Alondra. As do all of the angels.” And
at this point, I heard the citywide “angels acknowledged” sirens go off, but I
didn’t care. There were angels all over her house! There have been for years,
and I’m sort of tired of pretending they’re not there. “The angels love you and
will take care of you, Josie,” I said loudly over the sound of the blaring
sirens, and I think I saw that young smile gently touch the corners of her dry
pursed mouth.

In lieu of flowers, might I recommend donations to the
Opera House in Josie’s name? Or any place that supports the arts. Nothing would
make her happier.


We’re getting more updates from Ash Beach. Everyone at the beach today is
covered in dark ashes, their skin burning, the sun muted by a cloud of char.
They have all seen the waggling, hazy figures that fade in and out of sight.
The figures open their long mouths and point their spindly arms at people, and
those people in turn experience vibrant memories that never happened. Frances
Donaldson, manager of the Antiques Mall, said she remembered winning a silver
medal for figure skating in the Olympic games, but she’s never even seen ice in
real life. Green Market Co-opt Board president, Tristan Cortez, said when the
figures on the beach pointed at him, he remembered being lost in the wilderness
with a Golden Retriever friend of his. They were soon joined by a Himalayan
cat. They were all homeward bound, sharing an incredible journey together. But
that never happened! Tristan said it was actually a Bullterrier and a Siamese
cat, and that this new memory is false. 

John Peters, you know, the farmer, said he had a
striking memory of his brother, Jim. The memory was from only two days ago. Jim
was cleaning out the tractor shed with John. John said it was unusually warm
for late winter and they were both getting tired. It was almost noon, and John wanted
to break for lunch but Jim said, “Hey Johnnie, look at what I found!” John said
Jim held up an old football. “It’s from when we was kids, Johnnie!” Jim said of
a memory instigated by a physical object inside John’s memory from today of
something that didn’t happen earlier this week. John and Jim went out into
their untilled fields of imaginary corn and tossed the ball around for nearly
an hour. John said he wished this memory was real. His brother’s been off
serving in the blood space war for nearly 40 years now. “He probably ain’t even
arrived at whatever planet he’s supposed to fight yet. What with the,
destructive limitations on matter as it approaches the speed of light,” John
said, sadly reminiscing about his long-lost sibling. “I bet they gotta be in a
kinda frozen space sleep or something like in that documentary, ‘Aliens’,” he
added.

Listeners, if you’re at Ash Beach, try not to look at
the thin beings coming up from the ashes. Hide from their pointing hands, and
above all, do not trust the memories they fill your mind with. They are untrue,
they are fever dreams. They. Are. Lies.

Wait, in fact I’m just now getting word from witnesses
that large waves are crashing down on Ash Beach. There’s no indication where
the water is coming from as Night Vale, again, is in a desert. Some beachgoers
began tearing hoods off cars and using them as surf boards. Someone has spelled
out “HELP LOST” in seaweed, but the crashing waves washed it all away. Many
people are being dragged out into a nonexistent sea by a dangerous undertow.
Where is this water coming from? Until we know for certain, stay away from ash
beach.

More soon, but now the weather.

[“Faded” by P.O.S. feat Lady Midnight, 

]

The tide has ebbed, the beach is clear. The ashes are
gone, washed out to.. well. Oh, not well as in I don’t know what to say in
next, I meant well as in an old well, that appeared in the same spot it had
stood two summers ago, draining the water into it in a direct reversal of a
well’s usual role and then vanishing again, as old well’s often do.

Well. Ash Beach is neither ash nor beach anymore.
Simply a great expanse of sand and less and dry. Those who saw the shimmering
apparitions said the memories they were given are as real as ever. They were
not merely daydreams, nor vivid hallucinations, they are actual events that
never happened.

Simone Rigideau, the transient who lives in the Earth
Sciences Building of the Night Vale Community College and who recently began
teaching courses there, much to the chagrin of the college administration, said
she was at Ash Beach today and she saw the figures. She saw their pointing,
wriggling translucent appendages, she saw their numerous flat teeth in their
long gray mouths, she saw their bulbous white eyes, she heard the sound of
crunching like chewing egg shells, and she had a memory. She remembered the
college campus. She remembered it was 1983. She remembered students with
boomboxes, Trans-Am muscle cars. She remembered the news anchors that day, Tim
and Trin, with their feathered-hair double-Windsor neckties, shoulder pads, and
deep maroon nail polish. She remembered the news of missiles already launched,
apologies for a miscommunication, a mistake in a training drill. Apologies not
accepted. Missiles launched to retaliate. She remembered the news anchors Tim
and Trin trying not to cry, trying to report the news. She remembered students
and faculty gathered around the television, trying not to cry, trying to
receive the news. She remembered… the world ending. Not with a bang, not with a
whimper, but with silence. The absence of thought and feeling. Everyone went
missing all at once together – time, body, memory… gone. 

 Simone then said she remembered something else, from
the new memory she received today. A woman with a deer mask had appeared on the
television screen, her face flickering through the loud static and obscuring
the faces of Tim and Trin. She spoke in a language unknown to Simone but… she
recognized the name of the woman. Hunto-Kar. 

[cheerfully] “Oh, I know Hunto-Kar,” I said. “She did this, Cecil,” Simone said. “Hunto-Kar is super weird,” I said, “makes
sense that she would be behind this whole ‘Ash Beach’ thing.” “I’m not talking
about the beach,” Simone said. “Then what are you talking about?” I said. “She
is the destroyer!” Simone said, shaking her head. Simone said she remembered
the world ending, it was so clear, so vivid. But it did not end. She touched my
arm and said that we are here. How are we here? I told Simone, “You always say
the world ended in 1983, I don’t see how this is so special for you.” She said,
“I knew it ended. I just couldn’t remember it ending. Now I do. The world
ended, Cecil, I saw it on the news!” “Oh then it must be true,” I said. “Are
you being sarcastic?” she asked. “Why would I do that?” I replied. “I still can’t
tell if you are or not,” she said, eyeing me suspiciously. I don’t understand what
she was getting at.

Whatever our truth, Night Vale, you can feel your
body. Hear my voice. See the sunlight through dissipating ash clouds. I do not
know if we are real. But we are alive. We are tangible, feeling, and whole.


Stay tuned next for the sound of something trying to dig its way out of your
chest.

Good night, Night Vale, good night. 

: if you’re not wearing a denim vest,
then this conversation is over. 

Episode 104 - The Hierarchy of Angels


I know you are, but what am I? What am I? What am I? 

What. Am. I? 

Welcome to Night Vale.

I should start today with something happy. In his
speech yesterday honoring the life of Old Woman Josie, Larry Leroy out on the
edge of town, and Josie’s closest neighbor, told a story about his pickup
breaking down a few years ago. Josie had stopped on the roadside to help him push
the old Chevy the mile or so to his house. In the last few hundred feet, the
truck picked up momentum on the sloped road, and it rolled out of their control
into a large cactus. They heard a surprised yelp, and saw Telly the Barber
wide-eyed and sweating, holding a pair of shears. Josie and Larry laughed and
laughed. Even the surprised Telly laughed. Larry then asked Telly why he was
cutting that cactus’ hair. Telly gulped and ran away, still laughing and
sweating profusely.

Larry told the gathered mourners that he didn’t have
many friends in town, but Old Woman Josie was always kind to him. Always a
smile, always happy to help. Always good for a giggle when she caught Telly
giving cacti haircuts. 

 The services were beautiful, you know that. You were all
there. We were all there. I know I said gathered mourners but in a way,
we were gathered celebrants, extolling the great life of a great woman, now
gone. Today is the scattering of her ashes and the city is working to fulfil
Josie’s wishes. They are joined in this endeavour by several beings claiming to
be angels. The city is trying to ignore the angels’ request to help because it
is illegal to acknowledge the existence of angels, so… we’ll see how this goes.

The dozens of five-headed dragons, who came to our
world after the botched, yet partially successful execution of fellow dragon
Hiram McDaniels, are still in town. Hiram’s sister, Hadassah, had promised
vengeance for the wrongful murder of Hiram’s violet head. But after several
weeks of setting fire to local businesses, and devouring a few of the more
muscular human citizens, the dragons have gone mostly silent. Their
aggression’s now limited to some blatant jaywalking and loitering. There has
been one report of an unidentified five-headed dragon hurling a crumpled Fresca
can basketball-style at a trash bin, missing the trash bin wildly, and then
picking the soda can up and gently tossing it into the bin, only to have it
clumsily fall out and back onto the ground. Onlookers were shocked to see that
the dragon did not even attempt a third put-back, and the can is still lying on
the ground this very moment. The can is still. On the ground. Mayor Cardinal
has called on the Sheriff for stricter enforcement of minor offenses, so they
do not escalate into more sinister crimes. Plus, she added, if we do not clean
litter from our curbs, the street cleaners might show up, and we simply cannot
afford the loss of innocent lives that would cause. More on this as it
develops.

Josie’s daughter Alondra Ortiz, who came to town last
year to be with her ailing mother until Josie passed away, is now sorting
through Josie’s estate and documents. Alondra said she found no will in
Josie’s files, only a piece of paper that said: “It all belongs to the angels.”
But Alondra noted the handwriting was written shakily in thick Magic Marker,
and every word but “it” and “the” was misspelled. She believes the beings who
claim to be angels wrote this, not her mother. The angels responded, “nuh-uh”,
and then nervously wiped their brows with clearly ink-stained hands. Alondra
hired in an estate lawyer to help sort out liquidation of her mother’s assets.
Alondra said she just wants to be done with all this and go back home. When
asked where home was, Alondra responded, “I don’t remember. Why can’t I
remember? That’s not important, I mean it’s super-important but not to this
discussion. Oh god, what is wrong with me, with this town?” A single-engine
plane then flew across the horizon behind her, trailing a banner that read,
“Ooooh! I found some teeth!”

Listeners, some of you have asked about our intern,
Kareem. He’s been at the station for so long, about 16 months, much longer than
any other intern in recent memory. Well, I’m sorry to report he’s no longer
with us. He was a good intern and he will be missed. Kareem changed majors from
communications to Earth sciences and no longer needs this radio internship. He
is taking classes with Professor Simone Rigideau at Night Vale Community
College. Simone is not actually employed by NVCC, and in one of Kareem’s last
journalistic endeavours here at the station, he even found a copy of her death
certificate, dated 1983, although she does not show any signs of being a ghost.
But apparently her knowledge of Earth sciences intrigued Kareem enough that he
wanted to change career trajectories. Kareem told me on his last day, which was
today, like five minutes before I started my broadcast is when I find out about
this. He told me Simone knows what happened to Night Vale, why Kareem’s family
doesn’t know him anymore, and why he can’t find Mitchigan, or whatever is home
state is, on a map. I’m just happy Kareem is pursuing his dreams, even if he’s
gonna lose alll those journalism credits! And today’s filing will have to be
done by an overworked radio host before he gets to go home to his husband.
Gonna be a looong path to that degree, Kareem! I’m sure you’ll do great. 

Listeners, I’d like to caution you away from driving
near downtown. Road crews have shut down all streets in all directions, as a
construction team is building a series of elaborate rollercoasters and
amusement park rides, many of which do dives and loops around, under, and
through the surrounding buildings and even roads. It’s complete gridlock all
over downtown, with cars unable to drive into or out of the jam. On the plus
side, there’s a pretty cool looking Aquaman ride that does a double-twisting
loop through a large pool of water that is elevated more than 50 feet off the
ground. Mayor Cardinal is on the scene arguing with the construction team about
their lack of development permits. The construction crew, who are all tall
glowing beings with wings, showed the Mayor a piece of paper that said, “This
is all totally fine, Josie said we can build this, OK? Signed, City”, written
in a Magic Marker and nearly every word misspelled.

Allondra Ortiz’ lawyer, Emilio Tavarez, filed an
injunction to halt the work, saying that the funds used toward the construction
of these rollercoasters were part of Josie’s estate, and were being
misappropriated by the so-called angels. There is no documentation showing
Josie wished her money to be spent this way, Tavarez explained. The
construction team then mumbled, “A dummy says what?” And Tavarez said, “What?”
and they all laughed, including the Mayor who then added, “Yeah but yeah
seriously, you need building permits, even if you are fulfilling the elaborate
wishes of the deceased.” We’ll have more on this soon, but first, a quick
break.

Hi, this is Cecil. Leave a message! 

 Hello, Cecil? It’s Steve. OK, I’m not
sure if you’re there or not. Last few times I called, you said to leave a
message at the tone, and then halfway into my message you interrupted me and
said, [Cecil impersonation] “Ha ha, Steve. You fell for it again.” So I’m just
making sure you’re actually there this time. I have something I wanted to tell
you so you could report it on your show. Are you there, Cecil? I don’t wanna
fall for your trick again.

OK. Well. I was getting some coffee over at the Spiky
Hammer, and I held the door for this woman I didn’t recognize. She just stared
at me, didn’t say thank you or anything. I mean, I don’t hold doors for
approval, it’s just a nice thing to do, but she efforted to not thank me,
you know? And then when I stood in line, she stood right next to me, her face
just inches from mine, staring at me. I tried not to look, it’s not nice to
stare. She didn’t say anything for the longest time, but right as I placed my
order, a large crab legs macchiato with (quad shot) and whipped cream, she
started whispering loudly in my ear! I couldn’t understand what she was saying,
and it made it difficult to talk to the barista. And then, when I turned to ask
her politely if she wanted me to get her something, she was gone. Oh I wish I
could remember what the woman said. Oh gosh. It was something like,
hmmmmmmmmmm.. 

[voice distorts] The Woman from Italy has come back to
town. Nothing can stop her from tearing it down! She lives for your screams,
makes meals of your tears. She revels in chaos and deals in your fears. 

We all huddle and hide from the pain yet to come,
huddled hidden with loved ones, perhaps she’ll spare some.

She brings the torture, the trouble, the stress, so
can you order for her a double espresso? 


[normal voice] Well I don’t remember what she said. If
I think of it, I’ll call you back. Anyway, sorry I missed you Cecil!

 

 I’m here, Steve! You totally fell for it.

 

 Oh, oh! Oh-ho-ho-ho, you got me!

 Basic stuff, Steve.

 Sure is! Wow, you got me good! [chuckles]

 I tease you because I love you, Steve.

 Aww, Cecil. I love you too, big brother!

 Just kidding, I’m not here! Please leave your message after the tone.
[beep]

 Hello? Cecil, I’m not sure what just happened. I
guess I’ll try again later.

–

Sorry of the interruption. Oh, looks like I got a
voicemail. Oh, it’s from Steve Carlsberg. Well, never mind, there’s breaking
news right now.

Stay far away from downtown, listeners. The traffic
jam caused by the halted construction project is in great danger. The cars are
honking noisily, people are abandoning their vehicles, but the Sheriff is
asking everyone to seek immediate shelter. Several dragons are converging on
the scene. The dragons have everyone in the congested area completely
surrounded. They are walking – no, stomping toward the helpless citizens
trapped in traffic. Night Vale, do not go out on the roads. The dragons have us
exactly where they want us. What a disastrous trap! Be safe.

And as I try to find out more on what’s happening in
downtown, please hear this important weather report. 

[“Qualified” by Sammus feat. Open Mike Eagle,


]

Here is the secret hierarchy of angels. 

Deceased humans can become angels, but few humans do.
Angels are immortal beings, but not all of them are former human souls. Some
are animals, some plants. Some outdated electronics.


They are all named Erika with a K. All angels are equal to all other angels.
They share all memories and all physical sensations. They experience everything
simultaneously. Their minds are overwhelmed with enlightenment and pain.


They have no centralized leadership, but they do have committees, lots of
committees. These committees do not have titles nor objectives. The committees
simply emerge as needed. 

Angels are wealthy, but do not understand currency. They
will often ask to borrow 10 bucks.


Angels have no bodies, only visual projections of winged, barely humanoid
forms. These forms are dreamed up by those who see and acknowledge them, and
may vary based on the viewer.


The secret hierarchy of angels is an ethereal mass of feelings and thoughts
made manifest by necessity. They’re only individual beings because we imagine
them so, but they are collectively beings.

It is illegal to speak of or acknowledge in any way the
secret hierarchy of angels. But. I. will. Acknowledge it. here, on the radio. I’m
an objective journalist, which does not mean I have no morals or opinions, just
that I can be self-aware of my biases and emotions, yet still report a story
transparently to you. You may not agree with my point of view, but I will do. My.
Best. To give you the information you need to decide that on your own.

In the case of the angels, I acknowledge them. I see
them! And because Josie always said such, I too believe that they are real
beings, and are entitled to Josie’s estate. So does five-headed dragon Miriam
Adelman. She’s a lawyer, and the angels hired her to represent their case for
management of Josie’s will.

Oh, the dragons did not do any harm to those in
traffic today. They were simply the legal team coming to help facilitate Josie’s
final wish, which was to build a Night Vale sculpture garden, complete with the
usual rollercoasters and tilt-a-whirls, and an enormous ferris wheel. 

Josie wanted to have her ashes scattered underneath
(Jacobo Manzu’s) [0:22:17] famous sculpture, “Top Thrill Dragster”, which is a
400-foot drop and reaches over 120 miles per hour. Adelman and her legal team
managed to push through the sculpture garden construction, which is now
complete, and Josie’s ashes have finally been honored in the way she wanted. Alondra ceded this ground because she understood how important this town was to
Josie. But she added, “My mother’s home, her belongings, her money, her legacy –
these are all I have of my family. I have no siblings, no cousins, and no
parents. I am the only Ortiz left. I do not know or understand Night Vale,”
Alondra said. “I do not believe in angels, nor dragons for that matter, I just
want what is left of my mother’s memory, and then I want to go home, wherever that
is.” The city has declined to hear further arguments about estate ownership from
Adelman or her angel clients, as the dragons are not licensed to practice law
anywhere on this Earth, and their clients, the angels, don’t legally exist.

The secret hierarchy of angels is a cloud of knowledge,
formed from the collected experiences of the deceased. Josie might be among
them now, or she might know. All I know is that Josie loved Night Vale and we
loved her.

I am going to go to the sculpture garden today to pay
my respects. Carlos and I will hold hands and lay flowers at the ash-strewn
base of (Manzu’s) towering masterpiece of contemporary sculpture. And then, we
will purchase a souvenir photo of ourselves screaming in joy and sorrow, while
engaged in a 120-mile per hour freefall, demonstrating our fervent arts
adovacy, exactly as Josie would have wanted.

I hope all of you will join me in honoring not only
the life of Josefina Ortiz, but the lives of the angels who loved her too.

Stay tuned next for hosts Josh and Chuck and their
wildly popular show, “Stuff You Shouldn’t Know”, which as usual will be an
unbroken reduction beep for 30 straight minutes. No one has ever heard Josh or
Chuck speak.


And as always, good night, Night Vale.

Josie was beautiful and angels are real!

Good night. 

Episode 105 - What Happened at the Smithwick House


If you could press a button that would give you a great deal of money, but it would cause someone you don’t know in a distant part of the world to die, then you would have a good model for how our current economy works.

Welcome to Night Vale.

To start off, the story that everyone is talking about. In the interest of the common good, I feel I must report to you what happened at the Smithwick house.

Mr. and Mrs. Smithwick lived in a neat two-story home on Butterfield Lane. They had two small children, Lisa and Jake. Their lives were mostly normal. 

Mr. Smithwick was a gloomy man. He had an anger inside of him. He hadn’t used this anger to do anything, but Mrs. Smithwick could smell it, and the children could smell it. They were always very careful around Mr. Smithwick. Sometimes it would be a day, just any day, and they would turn to find him looking at them with a blank stare, and they would feel as though teetering on the edge of something wild.. and final. And then they would look again and it would just be stolid Mr. Smithwick going about this day. 

Even the neighbors could smell it. There was always something dark hanging over the Smithwick house. They never consciously thought but always felt. And because of this, they stayed away. Mrs. Smithwick was often lonely since few neighbors would talk to her. Mr. Smithwick was never lonely. He did not have the capacity for loneliness. 

One day, Mrs. Smithwick discovered she was pregnant. An accident. And how would they care for a third child? But they would. There would be no choice. Dutifully, Mr. Smithwick began to prepare a nursery in what had previously been a guest room. He moved out the furniture that had only ever been used for guests once - a visit from a cousin three Thanksgivings before, never repeated. 

He was in the process of painting the room a soothing green, when he first saw the hole in the wall opposite the wall. He called in the other members of the family, because the hole was.. so truly odd. Perfectly square and opening onto a tunnel that was also square. The tunnel’s sides were a cool damp concrete, leading away into darkness. On the other side of the wall was the outside of the house, but the hole seemed to lead somewhere very distant, although it was too dark to see. 

A soft breeze came from the hole. It was too small to enter, only about a foot on each side, so the family stood in the unfinished nursery looking at the hole. Mr. Smithwick thought he could hear from far in the distance of its depths a soft humming. 

More soon. But first, as many of you probably heard, two weeks ago I was arrested, after my explanation of the secret hierarchy of.. angels. Ahem. I was dragged in front of the City Council and informed I would be sent through a lengthy re-education and brain reconditioning program, before I would be allowed back on the air. But then I got City Council chatting about how Station Management is doing, their relationship is on a little bit of an icy patch again. And I see Station Management on a daily basis, so it was pretty easy to draw the Council into a series of questions about what Management’s mood has been like and how many hapless employees of the station have been lured to the Management’s office, and relieved of their life energy. Finally, the Council forgot what they had called me in to punish me about and let me go. So here I am, speaking to you once again.

By the way, there is a difference between a rough patch and an icy patch in a relationship. A rough patch is where there is a great deal of arguing and disagreement, a (chostle) [0:06:59] to both parties’ lives. An icy patch is where outwardly all seems to be smooth, but there is no actual connection made. Simple sentiments skitter off in unintended directions and both parties feel like they’re lurching without control towards destinations they had not foreseen. The angels, meanwhile, continue to fight for a legal acknowledgement of their existence. They’ve been protesting outside City Hall, blocking the entrance. Now this has made life extremely difficult for City Hall employees. The employees are unable to get inside the building, but since angels do not legally exist, these employees are also unable to accurately describe the reason for their absence from work. The angels have called on our unions, including the Steelworkers’ Union, the Taxi Drivers’ Union, the Tree Shrub and Moss Union, to join them in a general strike until the denial of their basic identity is finally purged from the books of law. 

And now your Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner. Today, we will look at birth stones. If you were born in January, your birth stone is the garnet. If you were born in February, your birth stone is also the garnet. You have to fight with January to see who gets to have the garnet. Whoever wins gets to be born. That’s how birth works. If you were born in March, your birth stone is, that’s right – the garnet. This is going to be a brutal battle for that stone. 

If you were born in April, your birthstone is flat and gray and sits next to a pond. It is dusty and warm in the sunshine, and if you put it against your cheek, it would feel like taking a long walk on a nice day. 

If you were born in May, your birth stone is cemented into the wall of a rich person’s indoor shower. This stall has several different shower heads and built-in surround sound speakers, and your stone is near where the person’s butt usually goes. I’m sorry to have to inform you of this. 

June, your birth stone is this one that I have in my hand. If you want it back, then you need to listen very carefully and [creepily] do everything I say.

July, you don’t have a birth stone, you have a birth rock. It’s in a park in San Diego and children sit on it to tie their shoes. August, your birth stone is in space! A shard broken off of an asteroid that is spinning away from the sun. Thousands of years from now, your birth stone will leave the solar system. 

September, your birth stone was swallowed by a little boy who is very sorry about having swallowed a stone. Swallowing a stone is 

 and dangerous. A lesson that little boy is learning now.

October, your birth stone was buried by drifting soil thousands of years ago. It will never again be uncovered. 

November, your birth stone is falling from a great height. Soon it will land. I hope it will not land 

 anyone but then, life has no guarantees.

December. Your birth stone is a dump truck. You may correctly notice that this isn’t a type of stone, but you may also correctly notice that at least you didn’t get stuck fighting over a garnet. 

This been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner. 

And now back to what happened at the Smithwick house. 

A few days after the discovery of the hole, Mrs. Smithwick disappeared. She did not pack any of her clothes. There was no sign of violence. She was just… gone. The children, Lisa and Jake, did not cry. They were too shocked to cry. They realized without realizing that they had passed through a threshold that there would be no way to ever return. Mr. Smithwick called the police, who investigated thoroughly. He tried to tell them about the hole, still in the wall of the unfinished nursery upstairs, but they were uninterested in that. They wanted to know where he had been last night and if he could prove it. 

He had been with the children. They said so as well. The police didn’t like it. But they couldn’t find evidence of a crime, let alone evidence that any specific person had done a crime, and so they left. Mr. Smithwick took the children to school on his way to work. He made dinner that night. He felt as though he should be searching for his wife, but something in him did not seem to find that urgent. Instead, he went into the nursery, painted a green he now found overbearing. 

The hole was where it had been before. He listened closely. Yes, still the humming from deep in the darkness. He bent over and looked, but in the depth of its perfectly square tunnel he could see only shadow. Then, there was a gurgle, a movement coming toward him. And he stumbled backwards, and a stream of clean fresh water begun to pour from the hole.

And now, traffic.

I have never seen snow in person, and yet I can taste it. I know its bite, but I have never felt it. We go places we never go. We achieve what we do not achieve. This is the power of imagination. Is imagination a blessing, or a prison? Would I be more driven to seek out snow if I could not imagine snow? If I could not project in my stomach what a ride down a hill might feel like, would I be compelled to seek out a slope and a sled? Does imagining make me less likely to act?

Here is what I think. Imagination might hold us back, but the exchange is worth it. By imagining, I can experience things that not only haven’t happened, but couldn’t happen. For instance, I will imagine an event now. 

A.. creature with a long.. forehead and, wide golden eyes on the planet.. Zardaz, in a galaxy that is not even visible from our galaxy, this this creature who is named.. Ersdawn is on trial for the crime of having viewed the sacred animal. Tom..pet of the queen of Zardaz, when asked to defend themselves, Ersdawn looked over the assembled citizens of Zardaz. All six of them. It is an inhospitable planet, and their population is very low. [grandly] “Have we not all, at one time or another, viewed tom, the sacred animal? Have we not all?” Ersdawn asks. It turns out they have not all. No one has ever seen tom before, not even the queen, and the queen is annoyed at this. And Ersdawn is tossed off a cliff, and the population of Zardaz.. is now five. 

What would our lives be without the ability to imagine nonsense like that? Anyway, there’s a patch of falling snow on Route 800 that scientists cannot explain, given that the rest of the region is currently in the usual early spring heatwave. I have never seen snow in person, but can imagine exactly what that snow looks like, and so feel no urge to go check it out.

This has been traffic. 

More on what happened at the Smithwick house. The children were gone. They had not attended school in days. Mr. Smithwick could not say where they were. He expressed utter confusion. The police did not believe this and arrested him. He sat quietly in his cell, and when they were forced to let him go because there was no evidence of his involvement, he quietly went home.

The neighbors avoided him, but they had always avoided him. The police left a car outside his house indefinitely. He went about his days as he always had. He made breakfast, he went to work, he made dinner, he went to bed. His wife and children were missing. He did not look for them. Instead, he went each evening to the nursery, where the hideous green paint on the wall now seemed an act of violence upon him. And he sat crosslegged on the floor, looking at the hole. The air coming from within was cold, like air from a cave. 

One evening, after several weeks of this, he stood and reached his arm into the hole. He felt something soft rush his fingers. He cried out and tried to grasp it. It felt like.. the faintest touch of a hand. He stretched his arm as far as it would go, and found a finger hold. He pulled it. What he had felt in the tunnel moved easily with his pull. To his astonishment, his arm emerged holding the branch of a tree, several feet long, covered in leaves the same shade as the wall. He sat back down. He did not try to reach into the hole again. 

Soon, the rest of what happened at the Smithwick house, but now.. 

the weather. 

[“You Cannot” by Erin McKeown, 

]

Mr. Smithwick no longer went to work. He did not make breakfast or dinner, he did not sleep. He sat in the nursery and looked at the hole. From deep in the tunnel, he heard humming. The neighbors noticed that he didn’t go out anymore, and they assumed the worst about this. they confirmed with each other that there had been something heavy and strange about the man. They agreed that this had all been a matter of time.

Time did not matter to Mr. Smithwick anymore. He didn’t notice if it was day or if it was night. Inside the tunnel, leading away from the unfinished nursery, it was always the same: dark and cool. When no one had seen Mr. Smithwick for several days, the police in the car outside decided to investigate. Earlier this week, they searched the house but.. There was no trace of Mr. Smithwick. All of his things were still there, and there was no sign of violence, he was just.. gone. One of the police officers wandered into the nursery, where the green paint on the walls resembled a person turning ill. It did not appear that anyone had been in the room for days. There was no hole in the wall. 

Evidence was searched for, and evidence was not found. The Smithwick house stands empty, with all of the family’s things still inside – furniture and clothing. Even the food, rotting in the refrigerator. The neighbors still shake their heads and say that this just goes to show… Although none of them understand what it went to show. 

And that is what happened at the Smithwick house. If there was anything to be learned from this, I… refuse to learn it. 

Carlos has called in to the station to let me know that he is thinking quinoa balls for dinner. Also to remind me that the “Dancing on the Stars” finale is tonight and also to say that what happened at the Smithwick house happened a long time ago, and he has no idea how it happened. Again. And I told him that this is definitely the first time anything like this happened in Night Vale, I mean haha ah, I would have remembered something this weird happening in our quiet little town. But he insisted that he studied the Smithwick case already almost four years ago. He doesn’t understand how the whole incident could have repeated exactly as it happened before. Reality doesn’t allow for that, he said. 

Well. I suppose there’s no accounting for reality. 

Stay tuned next for a look back at your life, featuring the most embarrassing moments and biggest failures, hosted by your own brain. If you miss this showing, don’t worry! It plays on a nightly repeat.

Good night, Night Vale, good night.

 you are what you eat. That’s very confusing phrasing. Let me simplify: you consume your own flesh. Much clearer.

Episode 106 - Filings


Why do birds suddenly appear, every time you are near? 

Tell me more about your special bird powers.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

It’s been a long couple of weeks, as the city-wide emergency sirens that signal illegal public acknowledgement of angels have been blaring almost nonstop. But in spite of these archaic laws, I’ve been shouting “You’re an angel!” at beings who look like angels and then making my most friendly finger-pointing gesture. 

The beings who call themselves angels because… that’s what they are, have begun filing the paperwork for official existence. The angels are still at the Hall of Public Records downtown waiting in line. They have made it to the front of line three different times, but each time, they were told they were missing a key form of ID or pre-application paperwork, or that the cameras could not record their image. They weren’t told his using words, the Records Hall clerk just stabbed their paperwork repeatedly with scissors and then got a massive nosebleed, which is how they know their application was declined. 

Other citizens waiting have grown restless. As they do not acknowledge the existence of angels, the next person in line keeps walking up to a seemingly empty window, only to be brushed away by a clerk, or an angel. These citizens have begun shouting and crumbling and curling into little balls and sobbing, as large glowing cracks appear in the ceiling. 

It’s been several days of waiting in line for the angels. We’ll check back in on them soon.

Oh, I have a new intern, listeners. He’s a fine-looking young man with a beautiful voice, I think he’ll have a great future in radio. I’ve been trying to ask him his name or who hired him. I certainly don’t remember beginning the search for a new intern, he just appeared this morning and started working without a single word. Which is the most professional behavior for anyone beginning a new job. Well, he seems hard at work, even if every time I address him he doesn’t notice me. It’s great having a competent replacement for Kareem, even if I have no idea how this new intern got here and who he is. As long as the filing is getting done.

Alondra Ortiz, daughter of Josefina Ortiz who passed away last month, has carried on her fight against the angels. The angels are claiming ownership of Old Woman Josie’s estate, since they lives with her and helped her build the many artistic monuments and cultural foundations around town. Alondra said she doesn’t care if angels are acknowledged or not. If they want to be recognized, fine, but Alondra and her lawyer, Emilio Tavarez have filed motions to maintain ownership of Alondra’s mother’s home, belongings, money, and memories. Just because a bunch of imaginary tall people with wings helped Josie change the lightbulbs from time to time, Tavarez said, that’s no reason they are considered next of kin. Tavarez told judge Siobhan Azdaq: “If they don’t exist, we must get kissed.” Judge Azdaq replied: “Emilio, it’s been four years. I’m remarried. We’re done, OK?” 

The angels have hired five-headed dragon Miriam Adelman as their counsel, who issued a literally scathing response. Alondra is now suing Adelman and her team for medical bills resulting from second degree burns. Alondra has already put Josie’s home up for sale. She is willing to offer rebates for pre-existing damage, such as a series of large glowing slits in the walls that lead to rooms that aren’t… possible, according to the official floor plan, nor the laws of physics. These rooms range from a 17th century ball room to a crow’s nest on a modern nazy destroyer to the space shuttle. Plus, anachronistic people keep wandering in and out of these portals. She added, “On second thought, since the house has more usable square footage than originally anticipated, and because there appear to be current renters”, she’s raising the sale price. 

So I just sent my new intern to go pick up some lunch. Or at least I said, “Excuse me young man whose name I don’t know yet who I only think works here, can you go grab me a cobb salad with extra whipped cream and pencil shavings from the Missing Frog Salad Bar? He didn’t say yes, nor did he ever seem to see or hear me, but he did look really frightened and ran from the room crying, which was such a polite and respectful gesture to his superior. What a nice young man. Dresses kind of weird though, so early 80’s, with his double Windsor striped tie, polyester coat and aviator goggles, just like we all wore back in the day. I supposed most things eventually come back in fashion. Well, I can only assume he heard my lunch order. I’m starving.

Faceless Old Woman: You’re starving? Try not having a mouth.

Cecil: Oh my god, you scared me. [chuckles] Listeners, we have an unplanned visit from the Faceless Old Woman who secretly lives in your home. Or I guess in this case, your radio studio while you’re still on the air. 

FOW: Cecil, we need to talk about the Distant Prince.

Cecil: Few dare to speak at him, so as not to draw his attention. What do you know? 

FOW: His harbingers are here. They are prepared to announce his arrival with their long, toothy beaks. They’re stomach-eyes see all. They’ve been rehearsing this announcement in their room at the Hampton Inn  on Route 800. They’ve been writing and rewriting their grand pronouncement and teaching it to the court shriekers to shriek out to all of Night Vale.

Cecil: What does that mean? 

FOW: What, “shriek”? It’s like a painful yell. Like this: [disturbing scream] 

Meanwhile, the mangled servants are gathering the ears of important Night Vale politicians.

Cecil: Gross.

FOW: Right? And they will sew the ears onto the walls of the Hampton Inn continental breakfast bar and use them as portals into many dimensions at once. Their plan is to destroy time itself and collapse Night Vale into a dead singularity.

Cecil: Why do they want to do this?

FOW: It was suggested to him by a nice young woman from out of town.

Cecil: What young woman? 

FOW: She.. she.. [music distorts, evil voice] The woman from Italy brings fun and jest, consuming all souls until none are left. Distant Prince and she plan the terrible plot: destroying all that is until all is not. I met her in dreams and found a dear friend, a woman a mortal mind can’t comprehend. No guard controls her, no physics can hold her, she’ll set the world on fire but leave you all colder. [music distorts back to normal] Yeah, she and I are best friends now. She’s a lot of fun, really good poet. I gotta go. Steve Carlsberg is back home, and I wanna stand behind him in the mirror when he bends down to wash his face. His shrieks are the funniest. 

Cecil: Oh aha hahaha, dumb old Steve! Be nice, OK? 

We are getting reports that a dense fog is now pouring from a giant glowing slash in the sky above the Rec Center. Some pteranodons have flown out of it, as well as a commercial airliner. And those who entered the fog reported hearing shouts, blood-curdling streams, and even the echo of drums. But there’s also the Battle of the Bands sound check happening right now at the Rec Center, so it’s probably just that. Either way, keep a close eye out for these apparent tears in the fabric of our reality. Also, go check out the Battle of the Bands. I think Diane Crayton’s son Josh and his boyfriend Grant are organizing that event.

And now a word from our sponsors. Today’s show is brought to by a grey pigeon, whispering to you from your neighbor’s backyard. The pigeon – his name is Alfonso – is telling you that you are the one true God. [serene voice] And that he wants you to bring it a body part. A human body part. Doesn’t matter which part. Just do it. [ominously] Soon. [serenely] “Time’s almost gone. The Bible was wrong,” the pigeon added, suddenly from your right shoulder. “There never was a beginning.” 

This has been a word from our sponsors.

Reports continue from the last few weeks of people all over Night Vale experiencing false realities. The most believable visions are those of tall winged beings roaming the streets and asking to borrow 10 bucks. City Council is issuing daily press releases, claiming the existence of angels is impossible and illegal. City Council is threatening to no longer speak to anyone who acknowledges the so-called angels. “You are uninvited to our birthday party,” today’s press release reads. “Too bad, there will be karaoke and minigolf. Your loss, angel acknowledger!” 

A series of fissures in reality have begun to open up, revealing truths that should never have existed. Like the 12th century Scottish castle sitting atop the stables over on Galloway. Frances Donaldson at the Antiques Mall reports suddenly knowing how to play the piano, when before she only knew how to play keyboard. Larry Leroy out on the edge of town came home to find his wife, Chrysette, mowing the lawn. But he was never married. He last saw Chrysette in high school, when they were both in the lurching band together. And fired chief Ramona Incarnassian said she found a rock in the shape of Harry Stiles’ liver. “I don’t know how Harry is getting by without his liver,” Incarnassian said. “Or given how much mud was on this thing, how he was ever getting by with it.”

Night Vale, beware the untruths which attempt to dismantle our town. Stay vigilent, read your journals, look at your photographs. Do your best to remember what is real.

Oh man, speaking of real, I’m real hungry. I wish my intern would get back soon with my salad. It’s been forever since he… Oh, wait. He left his wallet behind. Well, strike one, new intern. How are you supposed to buy lunch if you don’t take any money? Hope he has some cash in his pockets. 

I’ll be so annoyed if lunch is late. Ah, this is a pretty nice wallet. Trifold, ooh photo pages, human leather, money clip. I used to have one just like this. maybe let’s find out more about you, kiddo. Let’s see. Bowling league card. Ooh, I love bowling. Young reporter’s league membership. Wow, it’s after my own heart. Photos of him with a young man he could probably be related to and, is that my… who are you? Where’s your driver’s license? Oh God. This can’t.. this can’t be.

This here… just… 

Uh, OK, here’s the weather while I sort this out. 

[“All or Nothing” by the 

]

My new intern never made it back. He never left, or maybe, was never hear at all. Or maybe still is here after all these years. 

After finding his… my… ID in his wallet, I ran out after him. But before I even got out of the building, I found him in the restroom. The door was slightly cracked and the light was on. I heard a voice, a familiar young voice. “Leonard said if I work hard, maybe I’ll be a radio presenter myself some day,” said the voice. I was so frightened but still I looked into the washroom, and he was standing in front of a mirror looking right at himself. I never look into those things, or at least I haven’t in a long time. 

“I think the radio station is fun,” he said. “I think the radio station is hidden. I think the radio station is like a dark planet lit by no sun. I think, therefore I soon won’t be,” he said. I wanted to cry out to warn him. My mother told me to stay away from mirrors, and I knew he was in danger. I opened my mouth and tried to step in the room, but I could not speak, could not move forward. 

“I’m looking in the mirror,” he said. “The mirror is not covered,” he said. 

“Stop! Don’t look into the mirror!” I tried to say, but nothing came out of my mind, only spit and inaudible wheeze. Tears stung my eyes. I waved frantically, trying to catch his attention. 

“The flickering movement is just behind me,” he said, and then he looked right at me in the mirror. His eyes grew wide and wet. He said, “I…” He said again, “I…” and then he choked. Then he screamed, then I screamed, only again no sound came out. He fell to the floor, and for a moment, I remembered. I remembered blue lights and blood in my throat, and the dark planet lit by no sun and then I forgot it. Or at least what it looked like or, only that it was, or never was or it still is.  

His wallet was no longer in my studio, his… my… driver’s license was no longer in my hand, my familiar teenage intern was no longer lying on the ground. The mirror he was looking into is now shattered into thousands of intersecting cracks like parched desert dirt.

I approached the mirror, hoping to see a face I knew: a young man’s face I just barely remember. But I only saw a multiplicity of me, a man divided, unrecognizably under razor-sharp grounds, and behind me a glowing slash in the bathroom wall. When I turned, the whole in reality was gone. Only plain gray subway tiles. 

I don’t know what is real. Myself as a younger intern, the Woman from Italy, these holes in reality. Harry Stiles’ liver. Harry Stiles. Are any of these things real? 

One thing I know is real were the angels. After hours of waiting in line, their paperwork has been officially filed, with the Hall of Public Records, and a hearing date scheduled sometime between the last Friday of this month, and the last Friday of 2023. 

Night Vale. Reality is failing us. And strange forces are gathering. The Distant Prince, the Woman from Italy. The dragons. Hunto-Kar. 

I don’t know what we can do to save a failing reality, I only know, uh… We can make real that which we acknowledge and accept. Angels are real, Night Vale. The actuality of people we rarely see or interact with may seem unimportant as fissures in our world, threatening to collapse anything we know but – if you see an angel, tell them you see them. Tell them they are real. Point at them and shout: “You’re. An. Angel!” we can only make real what we accept as real,. Tell them, OK? 

Good night,

Night Vale, 

Good night.

Today’s proverb: Good things come to those who wait. Good things come slithering down the unctuous brown stone walls to those who wait alone in the dark pit.

Episode 107 - The Missing Sky


The best strategy for a labyrinth is to put one hand on a wall and follow that hand until you reach the exit. The second best strategy is screaming.

Welcome to Night Vale.

We start with our lead story: the faint popping that people have been hearing under the Earth. It sounds like the mole people are making popcorn in huge numbers, but everyone knows that mole people are deathly allergic to corn, so maybe something else? City Council issued the same statement it does for all emergencies, explaining that everything’s fine, we shouldn’t be worried, and that if we are worried, it probably means we did something wrong and are guilty about it. “Just what did you do?” the statement asks hundreds of times and increasingly larger fonts.

Carlos is intrigued by the popping. He is taking a small task force of his top scientists, Lucia and Nilanjana, to investigate. He placed censors in a number of locations and is trying to track the epicenter of the sound. Meanwhile, reports of strange aberrations in reality continue, with large gashes appearing in the sky and on walls all over town. Plus, nearly daily reports of false or alternative memories, which City Council again would like to remind you is almost probably fine. “See, we even put out a press release that everything’s fine, so it’s true!” they said. 

More soon, but first a word from our sponsors. Today’s show is brought to by Ace Hardware on Fifth and Shay Street. Which is a real hardware store, and not merely a camouflaged snake pit. Ace Hardware is here to fit all of your needs, and while it may look like a crude representation of a store created out of leaves and trash by hundreds of animals that had to work without the benefit of limbs. Trust us that we are a real store, that you can really enter, and will definitely leave again, alive and uneaten. Don’t worry, the near deafening hiss is the sound of [voice and music distort, static] hardware savings on everything including [ding] circular saws, reciprocating saws, [voice turns normal but the music still distorts] coping saws, and of course hand saws. All kinds of saws are 50 per cent off during this week’s “you saw it, you bought it” s<ale. Come by today. We also copy keys if you need that, so again, come on buy. 

This has been a word from our sponsors.

City Council is still in conflict about the situation at Old Woman Josie’s house. Old Woman Josie passed away several years ago, and we all remember her fondly. I myself never got to know her well, but those close to me say that she was a generous, kind, and incredibly clever human being, and the world is poorer without her. But it has been poorer without her for a while, and City Council indicates it is time to move forward with the plan the demolition of her house for the new highway extension.

The lone voice of protest to this plan is Erika, who has been living in Old Woman Josie’s house a few years before Josie’s death. Erika has no relation to Josie, but says that Josie took her in decades ago. No one knows much about Erika. She is a middle-aged woman with short hair and a tattoo of an angel on her right forearm. She was visiting town when contact was cut off with the outside world, and of course now, she cannot leave. She argues that, given that she has no way to return to the family she left behind, it would be cruel to force her out of the home she has made for herself. We will monitor this situation as it continues. 

Citizens, we enter the Great Weeks of Memorial, in which we remember the vicious and inexplicable attack that almost destroyed our city, and the fruitless years of war that followed. This will be observed in the usual manner with parades and military displays. Mayor Pamela Winchell will give a speech honoring those killed in battle, including intelligence officer Leann Hart, and John Peters, you know, the war hero. I would like to take this moment to thank a fallen warrior from my own family. He was a great man. I speak of course of my brother-in-law and best friend, Steve Carlsberg. Ever since the great change, which cut us off from the rest of the world, he devoted himself to understanding what had happened to us. He had never been interested in the strange or abnormal before, but threw himself into research and observation. He said that, contemplating the new sky above us, he could see lines and intersections, a great grid pattern across the heavens. 

When the attack came, he was one of the first to enlist. We all tried to stop him. Steve was not naturally a fighter, but he said that he had to protect his wife Abby and his daughter Janice. And he joined those brave few who left our boundaries to explore… whatever is out there. And he never came home. 

Steve, I love you. You know, sometimes I go out at night and try to see the same lines you did, the great grid pattern in the sky. But it’s hard to see through those tears, you know? 

Mayor Winchell is preparing to speak now. She is standing in front of the brand new memorial statue, with the controversial design chosen by Harriet Ramone and Benjamin Gould of the City Council. The design that depicts a human foot, several stories tall. Let’s go to her speech.

Pamela Winchell: People of Night Vale. I come to you as I do every year, as a mere citizens. As another human being who lives in this town. Who has suffered losses of her own, who has fears of her own.

We are none of us alone, except when we think we are. We have all faced circumstances that can only be categorized as extraordinary. And that we are still here, that we come together today to remember, this is a sign that we, too, are extraordinary.

Citizens, we will persist, no matter what. No matter how, no matter the [voice and music distort, static] the weight in our hearts, we will continue [ding] I like the tail and I like the flank, and I like the part where the fur goes up when they get excited, and I like the ears. And the tongue. And the face. And those are the parts of the dog that I enjoy. I wish there was a dog to pet right now. The question might be: would I give up on a regular life in order to pet a dog at all times forever? And the answer is yes of course instantly, without regret. 

Thank you. I will not be taking any other questions. This has been my emergency press conference on the subject of the strange noises detected from below the Earth. I will now put myself into a canvas bag that will be chained shut and then will be, an instant later, revealed to be empty.

Cecil: Wise words from our Director of Emergency Press Conferences, Pamela Winchell.

Carlos is continuing his investigation into the subterranean popping. There are now also sounds that resemble singing, but not at a frequency that matches any possible human voice. He is trying to examine what alterations could make a human sound like that. One hypothesis is that it could be caused by severe mutations from genetic manipulation or exposure to massive radiation. He also has a chalk board full of numbers. These are his favorite numbers, and whenever he feels overwhelmed, he can look at the chalk board and feel like – he has more control over his situation.

In any case, as the City Council says it’s probably fine, don’t worry about it! Don’t worry about it. 

And now, traffic. For that, we take you to ten uninterrupted minutes of farm sounds. [sheeps bleat, chicken noises, car engine, birds singing, cows mooing] [voices distort, static, ding] Things are looking pretty clear out on the roads, like most days.

[deep sigh] Listeners, why do I keep reporting the traffic? I don’t know. I’ve asked myself the same question. Muscle memory I guess? Habit? The reason we squint when leaving our homes, as though the sun might be there this time, but we all know the sun won’t be there. Nothing is in the sky anymore. And we don’t have gasoline. Not since the trucks stopped coming. No more deliveries.

Out on Route 800, Trish Hidge is taking a walk under the constant rolling thunder we’ve learned to live with. She likes to walk sometimes, in what she imagines must be the evenings, although others in town have taken those times to be the morning, and others still are asleep in the middle of their nights. She takes walks out to where the road ends and the great slopes rise up. She stands there at the edge of town, which is now the edge of everything, and she cries. Yeah, she really lets it out. No one hears her. She just puts her hands just beyond the end of the highway and holds them there for a moment, and then she turns and makes the loooong walk home. To a husband who is asleep, because she and her husband have agreed to live by different clocks, for reasons that are their own. 

So that is the one bit of traffic in town I guess. If you see Trish, give her a hug. Ask first. You should always ask first before giving anyone a hug. 

As the parade lines form, as we prepare to march out and remember the vicious attack against us, I am drawn, as I am every year, to my own memory of what happened that terrible day. We were starting to feel that we had reached a kind of acceptance of the great change years ago that took our sky and our connection to the rest of the world from us. And those years later, we were going about our business under that blank sky. Eating at the Moonlite All-Nite Diner, studying at the public library. Helping John and Jim Peters in the fields so that our isolated community could continue to have food. We heard the usual loud rumblings, like a rock slide above us. 

But then, there it was: a tower of destruction. An aberration. A terrible apparition. An abomination in our absent sky. And nothing would ever be the same. And afterwards, the years of war, only recently given up as lost. 

What did we do to deserve all that is happened to us? First, the theft of our sky. Then, years later, the attack. 

Listeners, do you ever think about the moon? I was sitting outside last night and I thought, does anyone actually know where that thing went? Have there been any studies on this? I’d ask a scientist, but I’ve never met one in person. I’ve only heard of the famous scientists like Rosalind Franklin and Lisa Meitner, and Hidetaka Miyazaki. I doubt a scientist would ever deign to come to such a small and isolate town as ours, especially now that it’s… so much more difficult to get here.

But the moon’s disappearance was weird, right? It was there and there and then suddenly it wasn’t. All the stars went too, replaced by a smooth blank. 

Where. Did. The moon. Go? Is it somewhere hidden, watching us? If not, what is it watching instead? Is there something more interesting than us?

Hey, watch us, Moon! We may not always be the best show in the universe, but we try.

This has been today’s Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

And now the weather.

Clear skies tonight, although cloudy and windy tomorrow, [voice distorts, static] With gusts up to 45 [ding]

[“The Ends and the Means” by 

]

Carlos and his team have found the source of the subterranean popping noise, but it is not a place we expected any more disturbance from, and it is not a place that – I’m comfortable with him going. They advanced on the area, nodding to each other to confirm that their suspicion was correct, and making hand signals to indicate that they should have worked out some hand signals before starting.

Listeners, I am, I’m just, I’m sick with apprehension. Carlos.. [sighs] Just please be careful!

OK, he’s approaching the source. Ahem. The singing is louder than ever, strange and high-pitched. There are popping noises and a pulsing vibration, he reaches cautiously out of the edge and he looks and yes, yes, it is as we feared, it is the tiny city under lane 5 of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex. The tiny streets are teaming with tiny parades. There are the loud pops of tiny fireworks and the singing, which Carlos now confirms matches the unified sound of hundreds of tiny human voices. The last time Carlos approached the city, he entered it and was attacked and almost killed* by the residents. This led to years of war with the tiny people, which was mostly quite manageable because they are exceptionally small, but still, caution. Is. Warranted. 

OK, hold on, I’m gonna uh, head over there to give him moral support, so let’s return to the farm sounds previously in progress.

[sheeps bleating] [static, ding] An aberration, a terrible apparition. An abomination in our absent sky. As we marched our memorial march and held aloft our portable shrines to our God, and set off our many fireworks, there appeared above us enormous face of the entity that tried to destroy our city, not four years ago. 

Why this great being from beyond chose to return at this moment, I’m not sure but it leaves me unneeassyy, listeners. It leaves the feeling that history is bubbling back up. That perhaps another great shift is coming. Like that shift many years ago, when Hunto-Kar destroyer – oh great God Hunto-Kar – appeared to us and took our sky away. We’ve prayed every year to Hunto-Kar, but She has never returned the world that we once lived in. Surely we will fade away, unable to get what we need from the outside world. Why did Hunto-Kar do this to us? We may never know. 

And then this creature attacking us from the world above, with the giant foot so controversially depicted in the new memorial statue. Looking into his rich, brown eyes today… he was beautiful. Much like us humans, but of course larger, with teeth like… a military cemetery, and absolutely perfect hair. No lowly mortal could ever achieve hair that perfect.

The last attack from this being led to a disastrous war with these giants, one that nearly ruined our city. I hope that these powerful beings look away from us, leave us forgotten and dying, leave us cut off from the world. Unless Hunto-Kar undoes what She once did to us. Unless we finally are absolved of whatever crimes we are being punished for. Unless, at last, the sky is returned these many decades later. But until then, we will continue our Great Weeks of Memorial, and then this fall, enter into the Months of the Rememberance of the Change.

Stay tuned next for one of our most popular shows, Janelle Duarte’s advice show, “Hey Janelle, What Did I Personally Do to Contribute to Hunto-Kar’s Anger Against us?” 

And under whatever starless, moonless sky it is we have lived under since the day of the change,

Good night,

Night Vale,

Good night. 

Today’s proverb: Top of the morning to you. The rest of the day to me. I never said this was fair. 

–

A great mystery. There is not a single person in Paris nor all the world, who can tell us the mysterious origin of France’s most beloved holiday classic, the Second Imaginary Symphony. Yes, decades ago discovered in a refuse pile, this audio recording was brought home by an enterprising trash collector on (Platypus Eve). The trash collector played the cassette he’d found, expecting music. There was instead a very strange story. 

“This is nice neighborhood. [carnival music] Just over that hill, factories, soon to be full of busy grownups hard at work. And this is nice street, Telegraph Road.”

Bringing us to modern times, where there is not a single Platypus Eve celebration in all of Paris, of which the Second Imaginary Symphony is not a part.

“This is Mr Ackerman. Nice neighbor and friend. Mr Ackerman works at the big factory just over the hill, and I have begun to wonder just what it was that the big factory over the hill is making. [machine noises, music wells up] Having wiled away many a twilight admiring the great factory. And I had to come know each of its towering smoke stacks and flashing lights.”

It’s a secret, of course, and that’s what this whole thing’s about. We listened to the story, we found it a comforting way to pass the holiday eve, featuring- 

[random noises]

“And this was the good one: things unfit for the ears of a little boy.” 

Also featuring: “wild laughter that offered not a hint of happiness.”

And of course featuring: “Atomic hypnosis.” [weird voices, noises]

“Atomic hypnosis? It’s just like ordinary hypnosis, only much much smaller.”

There’s nothing the French desire more than to sit back, close one’s eyes, and listen to the Second Imaginary Symphony. It’s something that we enjoy every year, and we hope that you will too. 

An Orbiting Human Circus Special: The Second Imaginary Symphony. Premiering on Wednesday, May 10, 2017 on Night Vale Presents, on the Orbiting Human Circus feed, with new episodes every other Wednesday through July 7. 

Episode 11 - Wheat & Wheat By-Products


Today’s air quality is 

.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Representatives from the greater medical insurance community announced this week that major insurance providers would no longer cover government-disseminated illnesses. These ailments were created to control undesirable populations and include: AIDS, most cancers, irritable bowel syndrome, telekinesis, tingling, and any kind of food allergy.

Doctors advise that the best way to avoid acquiring any of these conditions is to limit 

. Try not to be in a lower economic class, and give regularly to an approved religious organization. Take these precautions and you should live a healthy, or at least medically-insured, life.

In other health news, the Night Vale Council for Commerce reminds you to regularly consume wheat and wheat by-products. By doing so, you are directly supporting the local Night Vale farmer, as well as the local Night Vale commodities conglomerates.

Looking for a snack? Try wheat, or a wheat by-product. Dinner? Wheat and/or its by-product. Trying to patch a leaky roof? We have just the thing for you, and we also have its by-products.

Wheat and wheat by-products. 

New information on the Apache Tracker, who you might remember as that white guy who wears the cartoonishly inaccurate and offensive Indian headdress, and who disappeared some weeks ago after investigating the strange occurrences at the Night Vale Post Office.

Well, word is in that he has reappeared, except it 

 seems he is 

 Native American. 

More explanation, of course, is needed – but the Apache Tracker is also now only able to speak Russian, and I did not bother to get his statement translated.

Apparently, he has been taking to leaning on the hood of an old Honda Accord in the parking lot of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, shaking his head slowly and checking his watch.

Does his complete racial transformation make his previous actions less offensive, listeners? Write us a letter telling us what 

 think, and then put it away in a drawer for ten years. Reading it again, you’ll get a little pang of nostalgia for the person you used to be, once upon a time.

The City Council today issued a 

 warning against the manufacture and sale of discount bloodstones. They say that these bloodstones of inferior design and construction have the potential to cause major accidents in even common day-to-day chanting rituals. These accidents have included, in just the past few months: locust swarms, pus tornadoes, and the creation and subsequent obliteration of a 

 of Night Vale, forcing all of us to watch our identical counterparts perish – and thus confront the inevitability of our own futures.

Anyone caught selling these bloodstones will be put into the Dark Box, pending erasure from recorded history. The lesser charge of buying or possessing them will be met with mere summary execution.

Critics charge that the City Council is lying about all of this, due to the fact that the Council owns the only certified bloodstone factory in town. But, the Council has vehemently denied this charge by gibbering, howling, and knocking over microphones.

…..

…..

Thank you. These problems have been corrected.

An update on our previous message about wheat and wheat by-products. You should 

 wheat or wheat by-products, say several frantic scientists, waving clipboards in our studio.

As it turns out all wheat and wheat by-products, for unknown reasons, have turned into venomous snakes, which are crawling all over our small city, causing even more chaos than is normal. These snakes have been described as terrifying, loathsome, and “probably from the bowels of hell itself!” – also, green and three feet long.

If you have any wheat or wheat by-products in your home, you are almost certainly already dead.

Sorry about that.

Property taxes are going up again, Night Vale. Several citizens are justifiably upset over this latest increase, but municipal services do, after all, cost money. Schools, public transportation, parks and recreation facilities, and of course, the multi-billion dollar 

.

Speaking of which, scientists say that they are on the verge of developing the first ever human-made neutron star. Usually the aftermath of a supernova, this pulsar would be roughly four miles in diameter, but with a nearly incomprehensible density that makes it about half the mass of our own sun.

And to think, this rapidly rotating sphere of radioactive matter will be right here under the sands of Night Vale, producing enough energy to power the earth for billions of years.

The City of Night Vale plans to use the pulsar to light the high school football stadium, which still uses whale oil lamps.

John Peters – you know, the farmer – is particularly upset…not only about the pulsar development, but also about the higher taxes. As owner of more than 150 acres, John will certainly have to pay a large share.

And given that John is a 

 in a 

, he hasn’t actually raised a successful crop 

. 

But even our town heroes like John Peters – you know, the farmer – have to pay their fair share. No citizen is above paying taxes.

Well, 

 Marcus Vanston, but that’s understandable because he’s so 

. When you’re worth as much as Marcus Vanston, you have proved your value to society through hard work and determination, and are no longer required to show 

 any further proof that you care about anything or anybody else, because you 

 do. Look at all your money!

According to some, Marcus is worth over five 

 dollars, and that’s five billion reasons Marcus is our town’s greatest citizen.

Further updates on wheat and wheat by-products:

The good news is that they are no longer poisonous serpents. The bad news is that they have transformed into a particularly evil and destructive form of spirit.

Please, be aware that wheat and wheat by-products are now malevolent and violent supernatural forces, capable of physically moving objects up to 200 pounds and entering human souls of up to 

.

The frantic scientists, who are now hopping up and down just outside my recording booth, indicating various charts and figures, recommend creating a simple lean-to out of animal bones and mud, such as you might have made and played in as a child, and hiding there until the spiritual forces of wheat and wheat by-products have passed.

A reminder to all Night Vale citizens that the annual Sorrow Songs Sing-Along is this Thursday. There will be a potluck lunch, and the softball team will be selling refreshments to fund things that each of them individually want to buy for themselves.

Anyone who has their 

 Sorrow Song they’d like to add to our communal vocal malaise should submit it to City Hall by Tuesday, at the latest.

Remember that low moans and minor-key chants do not count.

The composer of the best Sorrow Song, as indicated by our audience participatory 

, will be ritualistically drowned in a pool of our own townspeople’s tears. Good luck!

Listeners, the City Council, for national security reasons, have replaced the following report with the sound of a burbling brook, followed by the sound of a running blender.

Friends, listeners, there’s a…

City Comptroller Waynetta Barnett received a $1.5 billion check from the federal government this week. The check was to support rebuilding efforts from this past week’s massive earthquake, reaching 9.7 on the Richter scale, the epicenter of which was directly below Night Vale.

Of course, we experienced absolutely 

 to the town, and nobody reported feeling any effects 

 from this enormous seismological event.

Comptroller Barnett says that she suspects that FEMA just saw the meter reading, declared this a disaster area, and sent a check. She doesn’t think they have any interest in visiting Night Vale, so we can probably just spend the money however we want.

Barnett added that those new Mini Cooper sedans are really cute, and wanted us all to look at their website.

We asked Carlos about our inability to experience tectonic shifts. Carlos, lovely Carlos, had previously recorded other massive tremor activity underneath our city.

His response was a few seconds of stammering followed by a sigh and slow head shake. 

I don’t know if he listens to me sometimes.

Ladies and gentlemen, I take you from an unreal disaster to an 

unreal one.

It is my sad duty now to announce that the City Council is officially putting Night Vale under an emergency state, due to the ongoing and life-threatening wheat and wheat by-products situation. The Council states that anyone who has come into contact with wheat and wheat by-products, and has by some happy miracle survived, should consider themselves infected and proceed to the usual quarantine area, just behind the playground in Mission Grove Park – there to spend the rest of their days in quiet contemplation and weaving.

Everyone else should head 

 to the Wheat and Wheat By-Products Shelter that has been sitting unused for decades under the public library.

When asked 

 a Wheat and Wheat By-Products Shelter already existed, the City Council answered, simply, “Prophecy.”

May you all be safe. May you all be well. May you be strong and flexible with ruddy cheeks and legs like tree trunks.

And now, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

News from Old Woman Josie, out near the Car Lot. She reports that the Angels have gathered in a circle in her living room, 

 her view of the television. They are shoulder-to-shoulder, facing each other, radiant with holy light.

“

,” they are chanting. “

.“

She says that a repeat of The West Wing she had 

 hoped to watch is on, and she is quite annoyed by her usually considerate Angelic house guests.

More on this story, maybe…if there ever 

 more.

And finally, some 

 news. All wheat and wheat by-products have mysteriously vanished from Night Vale, and the City Council promises that they will be gone forever. 

Dear listeners, stay tuned next for a live broadcast of a man, locked in a recording booth, silently staring at the microphone with intense suspicion.

And as always, 

 always, and 

 always, goodnight, Night Vale.

Goodnight.

Episode 12 - The Candidate


The policeman in that intersection is 

 directing traffic. He’s coding an urgent message to all of us.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

First, the news.

Old Town Night Vale residents are complaining about extremely noisy sunsets. Several agitated citizens are pushing for the City Council to do something about the solar shrieking every evening for the past few weeks.

One homeowner described the sound as “the parched cries of sad buzzards, or perhaps even the unholy voice of Old Scratch himself.”

The City Council, speaking in unison at a televised press conference, said that the noise is just the windmill farms that litter the unfortunate wastelands of Desert Bluffs, and that the noises do not fall under Night Vale jurisdiction.

Walton Kinkade, president of the community group Soundproof Old Town, said that the windmills can’t possibly be the source of the noise, as they are non-existent and also don’t work, because of Desert Bluffs’ staggering incompetence. The City Council called a 

 press conference, wherein they all wordlessly stared down Kinkade for fourteen uninterrupted minutes. Their dark eyes tore holes straight through the community spokesman (metaphorically speaking), until his soul was compacted into what looked like a partially chewed black-eyed pea (literally).  

To date, only Old Town residents have reported hearing these inconceivable noises every evening as the sun crosses the indifferent horizon.

And the noises seem to be taking their toll; there have been two heart attacks, twelve cases of significant muscular atrophy, and 

 two dozen claims of folks growing third eyes – including Kinkade himself, who had an arachnid-like 

 eyes when he spoke before City Council yesterday morning.

No other neighborhood can hear the sounds.  

I spoke to Simone Rigadeau in the Earth Sciences building at Night Vale Community College about this scientifically fascinating story, and she called it a simple case of celestial just desserts.

Full disclosure, listeners: Rigadeau does not work in Earth Sciences. She is a transient living in the recycling closet of the Earth Sciences building, and she collects cans as pets.

There is another hearing scheduled at 4:00 AM tomorrow, on the highest ledge overlooking Skeleton Gorge, which can only be accessed by government helicopters. All previous endeavors to scale the cliff-side by rock-climbing enthusiasts have failed in extravagantly 

 fashion.

The Council issued a statement wishing Kincaid luck in attending this 

 meeting.

Breaking news: we’ve received confirmation from the Sheriff’s Secret Police that fugitive Hiram McDaniels was finally apprehended. McDaniels has been on the lam since August. He was wanted on several counts of insurance fraud, falsifying identification papers, evading arrest, and assaulting a police vehicle with fire.

McDaniels was spotted near his Earl Road apartment early Saturday morning by several alert neighbors. The neighbors said they were able to identify McDaniels because he matched police sketches of an 18 foot tall five-headed dragon that had been posted across Night Vale. Fingerprints later confirmed that McDaniels was 

 a dragon.

Secret Police are still unsure of McDaniels’ motives for returning home. And, well, listeners, our station intern Stacey just handed me a photo of Hiram McDaniels. He’s a very dynamic-looking dragon.  The 

. The intensity in those 

, those many sets of piercing  

. I can certainly see how he charmed his way out of an arrest.  He must 

 get tickets.

What a guy!

An unsigned press release I found under my pillow this morning announces the following:

An interesting note on Hiram McDaniels: intern Stacey tells me that she’s been googling the roguish dragon. Did you know that he has a blog?  He’s a very smart fellow, some really groundbreaking ideas. Here’s one post from last week:

Well, it seems a certain multi-headed fugitive wants to become mayor of Night Vale. You have my vote, Hiram!  

Thursday night, the City Council is voting on a new measure that would prohibit 

 as an involuntary muscular action. Historically, the human body has been able to control breathing without the brain needing to consciously activate the diaphragm. Under the new rule, all residents of Night Vale would be required to make the physical choice of whether or not – and when – to breathe.

The City Council said that we have too long taken the receipt of oxygen for granted, and that the sense of entitlement must cease. If the vote passes, residents will have until March 1st of next year to learn to control these involuntary muscle groups during lucid sleep.

Detractors say that it is our 

 to breathe how we want, and that it is not the government’s job to legislate breathing. The Council responded by waving a brick in the air at reporters and shouting “

Then, they took a deep breath all together, lowered the brick, broke it into pieces, and devoured it.  

And now a word from our sponsor.

We all want to live forever, right?

Wrong.

Think about watching your family die as you 

 carry on, your children aging and passing, your grandchildren, and so on. Think of all the friends you’ll make, but eventually lose.

You don’t want that! No!

You know the earth is eventually going to be swallowed by the sun, right? And one day, you would be present for this greatest of all apocalypses. As fascinating as this would be, scientifically speaking, this excitement would fade as the pain of thousand-degree flames engulfed your tender body, and your aged mind would be so alone in this interminable torture.

Does this sound like something you want? We didn’t think so.

Immortality is stupid. Think before you wish.

This message brought to you by Direct TV.

Dear listeners, right after we reported on Hiram McDaniels’ interest in becoming Night Vale mayor, the dirty campaign tactics came into play – stirring up bad feelings, and slinging the old municipal mud. Incumbent Mayor Pamela Winchell issued a statement citing township bylaws that prohibit prisoners from running for public office.

Now, isn’t it just like a 

, such as Mayor Winchell, to make such unethical, ad hominem attacks on a great reptilian beast, simply because he is in jail? It sounds to me like the mayor is feeling McDaniels breathing down her neck! Breathing 

, that is.

Give ‘em hell, Hiram!

The following is a test of the Emergency Dream Broadcast System. In the event of an 

 emergency, you would just now be experiencing a dream in which you were in the neighborhood where you grew up, only all the houses are now black, featureless cylinders. Just row after row of these blank dark cylinders, stretching out around you. You are home…but you are also somewhere from whence you will never find home again.

There is someone waiting for you at the end of the longest street. You know that, although you do not know 

.  You try to run down the street and it grows 

. You pass by one cylinder in particular and know that it’s your house. You stop running. You approach the blank face of the cylinder, its surface seeming to devour light and sound. You reach out and you are inches from touching it.  Just then you hear a ding. You look up to see words in the sky.  

, they say. 

. 

Once again, this has been a test of the Emergency Dream Broadcast System.  

The Night Vale Mall is having to deal with angry calls from parents, after the Santa they hired for Christmas photos was once again a no-show. Mall public relations officials said that the missing Santa is 

 a performance art piece, meant to show people how our capitalist idols are truly nonexistent, ghosts of materialistic ideas that we have embraced as replacements for true spiritual meaning. A long line of upset parents and crying children stretched from Santa’s empty chair to just past the Hollister.

The mall PR officials added that they have a 

 idea for Valentine’s Day. They’re thinking, 

Officials added, “It’s going to be monstrous and 

. You don’t even know what art really is. You don’t even know 

.”

They concluded by chanting and pumping their arms in unison, like a lower, Paleolithic version of the YMCA dance.  

And now…the weather.  

[“

” by 

 (On the band’s 

 page, this song is titled “Of a Friday Night,” but it is listed elsewhere as The Brightness)]

During the break, I received a message from Mayor Winchell’s office responding to our previous reports.

According to the mayor, mayoral elections aren’t for another three years, and Hiram McDaniels is ineligible to run – not only because of his jail stay, but also because he is neither a Night Vale resident, nor a human being. There is, she says, no 

 for a five-headed dragon as elected official.

Mayor Winchell also pointed out that writing the throwaway phrase “If I were mayor of Night Vale” on a blog is not an official declaration of candidacy.

“There is paperwork!” Mayor Winchell shouted into my voicemail. “You can’t just…argh!” she continued, trailing off slightly at the end.

What followed was about ninety-five seconds of loud stomping, and what sounded like wood chopping in the distance, before the message finally ended.

Allow me a retort, dear listeners, with this brief editorial:

With all due respect, Madame Mayor, have we not had enough dragon-bashing? Our great country once held to some terrible old customs, but we grew up. We learned. We abolished slavery. Women won the right to vote. Ghosts can now marry (but of course, not have children – I mean, that would be a 

 slippery slope).

And our own little burg is on the verge of becoming the first city in this great nation to legalize time travel. So let’s loosen our collars! Let’s march into the reptilian future, not cling to the narrow past. Just because a dragon is a dragon, and has five heads, doesn’t mean he can’t lead our community.

Sure, critics will say, “Oh! But Cecil! What if his five heads don’t agree on something? What if one’s like, 

 But another’s like, 

  And the others are drunk or sleepy or something?  How can we agree to elect five heads that can’t agree with themselves?" 

To this, I say 

 for your negative stereotypes of multi-headed beings. Free your mind! The rest, as our official town song says, will follow.

The song also says, "Lap deeply of the scarlet mud, after the blood rains of the apocalypse,” but I don’t think that quite applies here.

So with this, I am proud to offer my endorsement of Hiram McDaniels for Mayor of Night Vale. Sure, the election isn’t for three years, but it’s never too early to affect change. And in that time, we will rally. We will petition to get what we want. And soon, a great leader will rise. Lead us to that future, Hiram!

Ah, but that is later. Now, it is dark. It is quiet. Just you and me, dear listener. Just my voice, traveling from this microphone, traveling silent and immediate across sleepy homes and lost souls to your ears.

You curl under a blanket, protecting your body from the world – excepting a few clever spiders – and you are listening, hearing me.

Sleep heavily and know that I am here with you now. The past is gone, and cannot harm you anymore. And while the future is fast coming for you, it always flinches first, and settles in as the gentle present. This now, this 

, we can cope with that. We can do this together, you and I. Drowsily, but comfortably.

Stay tuned now for our two-hour special, Car Alarms and Their Variations, brought to you commercial-free by Canada Dry.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 13 - A Story About You. ( R )


 This episode was a re-release of 

, A Story About You. There were three differences from the original:

Everything else was exactly as presented in 

.

Episode 13 - A Story About You.


 said the man on the radio. And you were pleased, because you always wanted to hear about yourself on the radio.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

You live in a trailer, out near the Car Lot, next to Old Woman Josie’s house. Occasionally, she’ll wave at you on her way out to get the mail or more snacks for the Angels. Occasionally, you’ll wave back.

At night, you can see the red light blinking on and off on top of the radio tower. A tiny flurry of human activity against the impeccable backdrop of stars and void. You’ll sit out on the steps of your trailer, with your back to the brightness of the Car Lot, watching the radio tower for hours. But only sometimes. Mostly, you do other things.

You didn’t always live in Night Vale. You lived somewhere else, where there were more trees, more water. You wrote direct mail campaigns for companies, selling their products. 

 you wrote often. 

 Then you would delete that and write something else, and it would be sent out, and it would not be read by anyone.

You had a friend, and then a girlfriend, and then a fiancee – the same person. She cooked dinner sometimes, but sometimes you cooked.

One day you were walking from the glass box of your office to your old Ford Probe, and a vision came to you. You saw above you a planet, of awesome size, lit by no sun. An invisible titan, all thick black forests and jagged mountains and deep turbulent oceans.

So desolate. And so impossibly, terrifyingly dark. And that day, you did not go home. You drove instead. You drove a long time, and eventually you ended up in Night Vale, and you stopped driving.

You have been haunted ever since by how 

 it was to walk away from your life, and how 

 the repercussions were. You never heard from your fiancee or your job again. They never looked for you, which doesn’t seem likely, or maybe it’s that in Night Vale, 

.

The complete freedom.

The lack of consequence.

You have a new job now. Every day except Sunday you drive out into the Sand Wastes, and there you find two trucks. You move wooden crates from one truck to another while a man in a suit silently watches. It is a different man each time. Sometimes the crates 

. Mostly, they do not. When you are done, the man in the suit hands you an amount of cash, also different each time, and you go home.

Except, today…it was different.

You moved the crates. The man in the suit, a stranger, watched. But then, 

, the man in the suit received a phone call. He walked off at some distance to take it. “Yes, sir!” he said, and “No, sir!” Also he made hawk shrieking sounds. It wasn’t terribly interesting.

But then, an impulse…an 

 impulse came over you, and for no other reason than that you are trapped by the freedom to do anything in this life, you took one of the crates, and put it in your trunk.

By the time the man came back from his phone call, you were done with your job. He gave you the money (it was nearly five hundred dollars today, the 

 highest it had ever been), and you drove home with the crate in your trunk.

When you got home, you took the crate into your trailer and left it in the kitchen. The crate 

. It made no sound at all. 

 made a sound except you, breathing in and breathing out.

You cooked dinner (you always cooked dinner), the red light on the tower blinked on and off in your peripheral vision, a message that was there and then wasn’t, and that you could never quite read.

You wondered how long it would take them to miss the crate. You did not wonder who ‘they’ were. Some mysteries aren’t questions to be answered, but just the kind of opaque fact – a thing which exists to be not known.

Which brings us to now. To this story.

You are listening to the radio.

And then you hear something else, a guttural howl out of the desert distance, and you know that the crate’s absence has been discovered.

The crate – well, it sits, That’s all. On the kitchen floor. That’s all.

It’s warm, warmer than the air around it. It smells sharp and earthy, like freshly ground cinnamon. And when you put your ear against the rough warm wood, you hear a soft humming – an indistinct melody.

It does not appear to be difficult to open. All you would need to do is remove a few nails.

You decide, instead, to go to the Moonlite All-Nite Diner, and have a slice of pie.

The wind is 

, like always, and smells like honey and mud.

Daylight brings only a chain of visual sensations, none of which cohere into meaning for you anymore. Life has become out of focus, free of consequence. As you drive you turn off the headlights, for a moment. At that moment, you feel again, above you, not even far away now, that planet of awesome size, lit by no sun. An invisible titan, all thick black forests and jagged mountains and deep, turbulent oceans. You see nothing but the faint moonlight on your dashboard, but you know the planet is out there – yawning in the unseen spaces.

You turn your headlights back on, and all you see is a road. Just asphalt. Just that.

And you pass a man waving semaphore flags indicating that the speed limit for this stretch is 45.  

The Moonlite All-Nite is radiant green; a slab of mint light in the warm darkness. You squint when you see it, like it 

 your eyes, but it does not hurt your eyes. You park near the front door.

A man rolls by on the ground, his eyes bleary and sightless, whispering the word 

 over and over. But you don’t have the money to tip him, so you go inside.

You order a slice of strawberry pie, and the waitress indicates through words and movements that it will be brought to you presently.

The radio speaks soothingly to you from static-y speakers set into a foam tile ceiling.

A man slides into the booth across from you. You recognize him vaguely, although he looks considerably different now. It is that man who appeared to be of Slavic origin, but who dressed in an absurd caricature of an Indian chief and called himself the Apache Tracker. Except now, it’s difficult for you to miss, he has actually transformed into a Native American.

The Apache Tracker smells of potting soil and 

. He leans across the table and touches your hand lightly.

You do not pull the hand away, because you know that there will be no consequence for any of this.

“Вы в опасности,”

 he says, “Они идут.”

He taps the table. Then, bringing his thick eyebrows together and pursing his lips, he leans down and taps the ground.

“I think my pie is here now,” you say unnecessarily, as the pie is quite visibly placed in front of you. You did not order invisible pie. You 

 invisible pie.

He looks at the pie for a long time, and then lets his breath hiss out slowly through his nose.

“Они придут снизу. Пироги не помогут.”

He leaves.

You finish the pie and ask for the check. “Check please,” you say, whispering it into your drinking glass as is custom, and then lifting the tray of sugar packets to find it, filled out and ready to be paid. You drop a few dollars onto the check, place it back under the sugars, wait for the sound of swallowing, and leave the diner. The waitress nods as you leave, but not at you. She nods slowly and rhythmically to music 

, her eyes riding the curved line of neon lights above the menu.

As you start the car, the man on the radio says something about the weather.

[“

” by 

]

The crate is in your kitchen, where you left it, and you get down on your knees to embrace it more fully. It has grown warmer – even hot.

It still is not ticking.

It had taken you no time to get back home. Now that you think about it, 

 The man with the semaphore flags explaining the speed limit – he wasn’t there either.

Without allowing another stray thought to wander through your mind and delay you, you grab the crate and throw it in your trunk. You turn the ignition, and your car radio comes alive with a pop – just as the announcer says that 

Where to now?

.

A pair of headlights, a pair of eyes, and two shaky hands, speeding through the silent town.

Behind you, you see helicopter searchlights sweeping down onto your trailer.

There are sirens.

A purplish cloud hangs over the town, glittering occasionally as it rotates.

You drive past the Moonlite All-Nite – still aglow and full of people slowly eating what sounds good only late at night, and Teddy Williams’ Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex – which has taken to not only locking but 

 its doors at closing time. You pass by City Hall which, as always, is completely shrouded after dark in black velvet.

Moving farther out, following the pull of the distant, uncertain moon, you pass by the Car Lot (where the salesmen have been put away for the night), and Old Woman Josie’s house (where the only sign that the unassuming little home could be a place of residence for Angels is the bright halo of heavenly light surrounding it, and the sign out front that says 

).

And the town is behind you, and you are out in the Scrub Lands, and the Sand Wastes.

By the road you see a man, holding a cactus in one hand and a pair of scissors in the other. He shakes both at you as you pass, and 

.

Just you, and the desert.

You stop the car and get out. Pebbles crunch in the sand in response to your movement. The radio murmurs behind the closed doors of the car. The headlights illuminate only a few stray plants, and the wide dumb eyes of some nocturnal animal.

Looking back, you see the bulge of light that is your Night Vale. The Purple Cloud, now floating over the heart of the city, reaches its tendrils in and out of buildings.

You open the trunk and lay one hand on the crate. It pulses with some kind of 

.

Still no ticking though.

Several buildings are on fire. Crowds of people are floating in the air, held aloft by beams of light, and struggling feebly against power they cannot begin to understand. The ground shifts, like it was startled.

It’s so quiet, when it finally comes. You see the black car long before it arrives. It comes to a halt nearby and two men step out.

“How did you find me?” you ask.

“Everything you do is being broadcast on the radio for some reason. That made it pretty easy,” says one of the men, the one that isn’t tall.

“Yeah,” you say. “I see that now.”

“You have the item?” the man who is not tall asks.  

You say nothing.

The man who is not tall signals the man who is not short, and he walks past you, looks into your trunk, and nods.  

“Even easier,” says the man who is not tall.  

There is an unexpected click. One of the rear doors of the black car has opened, and your fiancee has stepped out. Her eyes are wet, like it was the night you left. She does not appear to have aged, but then, you can’t actually remember how long it has been. Could it have been last week? Or was it ten years ago?

“Why?” she says. “Why? 

”

The man who is not short steps up to you, puts a knife against your throat. Nobody says anything. Your fiancee shakes her head. Her eyes are empty. Broken. Gushing.

The radio is saying all of this as it happens. You hear it dimly through the car door.

All at once, the consequences. All at once you are no longer free. It’s 

 coming back around.

Life – bleary, washed-out – snaps back into focus. The red light on the tower still blinks in the distance and 

. It all makes sense and you are finally being punished.

Your fiancee abruptly gets back into the car. Neither of the men seem to notice her. One opens the crate with a couple quick taps, and pulls out of it an intricate miniature house.

The 

 that must have been spent building it! Every detail is accounted for! Inside the house you think you see for a moment, lights and movement.

“Undamaged,” says the man who is not tall.

The knife presses harder against your throat, but it doesn’t hurt. Your eyes wander up and you see above you the dark planet of awesome size perched in its sunless void, an invisible titan all thick black forests and jagged mountains and deep, turbulent oceans.

A monster.

Spinning.

Soundless.

Forgotten.

You see it just above you. Maybe even if you tried very hard, you could 

.

This has been your story.

The radio moves onto other things – news, traffic, political opinions, and 

 to political opinions. But there was time, one day, 

, in which it was only one story.

And you were pleased, because you always wanted to hear about yourself on the radio.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Translations:

  You are in danger.

  They’re coming.

  They will come from below. Pies will not help.

Episode 14 - The Man in the Tan Jacket


Look to the obelisk. We don’t know where it came from, but it’s attracting a 

 of cats.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Happy New Year, Night Vale!

Last night’s fireworks extravaganza at the Night Vale Harbor and Waterfront Recreation Area was beautiful! 

And just because the only things remaining on the premises are several large piles of rubble and a red sign reading

does not mean that they failed to correctly use tax dollars to build a harbor, a waterfront, or a recreation area.

Anyway, the fireworks over the city-made sign were lovely. Happy 2013!

Ladies and gentlemen, surely you have noticed…there’s a 

 in a 

. 

This Monday through Friday is the annual Night Vale Career Fair at the Downtown Convention Center. There will be dozens of booths, representing phony local businesses that will take your resumes and photos (via hidden surveillance cameras) and conduct sample interviews designed to badger you into implicating yourself in nefarious activities.

First-generation Night Vale residents – particularly those whose parents were originally born in Maine, Massachusetts, Canada, Micronesia, and Suriname – are 

 encouraged to attend.

This year’s keynote speaker is an audio tape of droning moans leaden with subliminal tips about achieving personal prosperity and how to come clean about the terrible things you have done, 

.

Last year’s fair featured several very high-profile arrests, and exciting door prizes. Tickets are $25 – or $15 if you still have working retinas to scan.

Over the weekend, Teddy Williams – owner of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex – sent us some security camera footage of what he believes to be the first-ever glimpse of citizens of the Underground City deep below Lane Five.

Early Saturday morning, Fun Complex cameras picked up blurry motion near the soda machine. The footage is quite fuzzy and difficult to discern. Perhaps it is merely rats or raccoons, digging through an uncovered supply of junk food. But it is, of course, much more likely that a lost nation of people, living in the bowels of a small-town bowling alley, are finally revealing themselves, taking our food supplies, and preparing for war.  

Teddy told us that he believes this city to be thousands strong and ready to move into Night Vale. Ready to take arms against the 

 (as they probably call us). Ready to conquer this heaven and become the righteous owners of our sun-soaked precious land…

.

It takes very little extrapolation to believe that they worship a god named 

, who demands sacrifice to keep their Underground City thriving in the absence of nourishing sunlight.

And a fair assumption is they are ruled by a Child King, recently coronated, who is too weak to rein back the generals intent on marching upon us in war.  

Ladies and gentlemen, if you care for your community, your town, 

 like I do, you will 

. You will rally your neighbors to militia. You will point fingers at those who do not wish to fight and have them rounded up into pens. 

 We are at a presumptive war with a projected enemy whom we cannot yet see, or even be certain of, but who are 

 bloodthirsty giants.

If you would like to learn more about starting a militia, simply learn to be a 

 American. 

 how you’ll know. And remember, 

 Your careless talk costs lives. 

, and it seems 

.

Who was it, Night Vale?

Was it 

? Did Steve Carlsberg talk?

Maybe a group of 

 citizens should go have a 

 with Steve and find out what he’s been saying, 

.

Stay by your radios, listeners. We will report further as events warrant.  

More now on the Man in the Tan Jacket.

Old Woman Josie called to tell us that her Angel friends are saying that the deerskin suitcase is 

. The Angels would not tell her more, explaining that 

 more would jeopardize her Eternal Soul, as well as their own statuses as Angels. They did 

 want to mess with that!

Old Woman Josie added that she thinks the Man in the Tan Jacket is just a salesman of some sort. A fly salesman, she bets, wandering from town to town with polished shoes and a suitcase full of flies.  

“Oh, I just can’t 

 those fly salesmen,” she said. “Ringing my doorbell at 3:00 AM, wanting to show me samples and asking for glasses of orange milk!”

The Night Vale Daily Journal has announced that, despite cost-cutting measures and mandatory subscription laws, it is facing a 

 budget shortfall this year.  

 said editor Leann Hart, in a prepared statement whispered through my mail slot late last night. 

She went on to explain that this “budget shortfall” has 

 to do with the reported lavish birthday party she threw for herself in Night Vale Stadium, featuring a lazy river made entirely of champagne and a birthday cake topped with 

 slices of moon rock.

In an addendum she tapped in Morse code on my bathroom window, she said that the Journal is considering all new sources of income – including creating additional advertising space and mugging Night Vale citizens, and that I shouldn’t mention the whole birthday party thing after all, because she was 

, so how could she have had a birthday party?

She spent the rest of the night tapping out the phrase 

 which actually was a pretty relaxing sound to fall asleep to.

Hey, kids and parents! Time once again for our Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner!

Today we are exploring common birds and their meanings. An eagle indicates that an important phone call is impending. A sparrow says that you should beware the sea, and sell any stocks invested in food-based companies. A pigeon means that your mother has died – 

 that all is well. It’s a bit uncertain.

A hummingbird tells us that the physical constants of the universe are slowly degrading and may someday shift, invalidating the laws of physics and instantly wiping out the universe as we know it while simultaneously creating an entirely new universe in a single transcendent moment of genocide and genesis.

As for hawks, well…no one knows what hawks mean, or if they are real. Have you ever even 

 a hawk? Of course not. 

  

This has been our Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.  

And now a word from our sponsors.

Today’s program has been sponsored by the physical act of 

. For thousands of years, 

 has been there for human beings when they needed an expressive gesture of the throat. Whether you want to indicate nervousness about an upcoming test or appointment, fear of the Faceless Old Woman who lives secretly in your home, or just want to ingest milk faster than with regular swallowing, 

 is the way to go. Forget sweating! Never mind shivering! Sneezing? Ugh! When you think physical actions, think 

! 

 now and receive a complimentary prize package, which will be conveniently buried in an unmarked spot somewhere in the Scrublands. Find it, and it’s yours!

The Sheriff’s Secret Police has just issued an important request related to our earlier story. They ask that all Night Vale citizens be on the lookout for a Man in a Tan Jacket, carrying a deerskin suitcase. He is about five or six foot 

, probably with hair, and normal human features.

He was last seen early this morning on the unlit, gravel-paved stretch of Oak Trail, near Larry Leroy’s house out on the edge of town. The Man in the Tan Jacket was reportedly seen in the moonless black, standing next to a refrigerator engulfed in flames.

He was smoking a cigarette.

Witnesses claimed he stared at them as they slowly drove by on the darkened country road, but despite the prolonged eye contact, the witnesses 

 could not describe his face to police.  

Two days prior, the Man in the Tan Jacket was seen standing in a park. No one can remember 

 park, but they’re fairly certain it was a park. Or, maybe, it was in the Old Navy Outlet Store or near the invisible clock tower…it wasn’t quite clear.

Either way, the man was 

 standing with his deerskin suitcase, and staring up at the sun for hours. He followed the bizarre glowing orb, which is somehow the source of all light and life, and –

 the Secret Police then interjected.

Secret Police officials added that if you see a Man in a Tan Jacket carrying a deerskin suitcase, write down what you see 

.

The City Council has temporarily lifted their ban on pens and pencils, so that citizens can help law enforcement on this matter. Once you write down your encounter, call 911 immediately, or simply say, “Hey, police!” out loud. We’re all being monitored almost 24/7, so they’ll probably hear you just fine.

Let’s go now to traffic.  

There is a car.

It’s not in Night Vale, or even in the desert that cradles our little town. It’s out 

 beyond that. There are many cars there, but I’m speaking only about one. Blue, square-ish, with tires and windows and an engine that works…most of the time.

A woman is driving it, and she is also glancing whenever she can at the child in the passenger seat. He is a child, but he is 15.

You understand.

She is glancing at him, but she is not 

 anything. And 

 is not saying anything either.

She wants to cry…

 she wants to push him out of the car…

 she wants to go back in time and 

 on using a condom…

…only she would never do that.

She wouldn’t change any of this, really. Not for all the money – 

 of money, some of it 

 money from defunct and absent governments – she wouldn’t give 

 of this back.

So she drives her car. Blue. Square-ish. With tires, and windows, and an engine that works…most of the time. And she glances at the 15 year-old child. And neither of them speaks.

This has been traffic.

And now, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Ladies and gentlemen: During the break, I received a call from someone 

 to be an 

.

Now, I don’t know if this was a prank or not, as no one has ever actually 

 that they’ve talked to an Angel. Even Old Woman Josie’s word is just that, 

But listeners, I think this had to have been an Angel, because my face became 

, and the voice filled every part of my body, and tears were flowing down my face the instant I touched the phone receiver, and the whole room was lit up in – well, how can I describe this? – a bright black beam illuminating every atomic detail!

And the Angel – if that is indeed who called – the Angel said that the Man in the Tan Jacket with the deerskin suitcase was from a place 

.

Underneath our knowledge.

A vast world, right below our feet.

I asked for more, but the Angel – if that is indeed who called – whispered only, 

And it filled me with 

 and 

Then the call ended, and the black ray of truth was gone, and I was 

 and alone. And dear listeners, the silence…well, it was unlike any silence you have 

 

 heard.  

So our mystery man remains un-found.

And I’m still not sure 

 an Angel would have to use a telephone.

But, for now, we can only know what we know. And that is that we don’t know.

Thank you again for listening, listeners. I look forward to another fine year. A 

 year, well-spent with all of you out there.

Stay tuned next for two commercial-free hours of E

.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Be alert, and write down 

 you cannot comprehend.

Until next time.

Episode 15 - Street Cleaning Day


Bananas are 

 that slippery. But watch your step anyway.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Ladies, gentlemen, 

. Today is Street Cleaning Day.

Street Cleaners will be upon us quite soon. We have little time to prepare.

The City Council has issued a statement in 20-point all-caps type saying:

We have contacted those experts who have not already gone underground or changed their identity, and have been told that Street Cleaners focus on heat and movement, and so the best strategy is to be dead already.

Then the experts all swallowed pills and fell, mouths frothing, at my feet.

If you have doors,

If you have windows,

If you still have ears,

, and crouch wherever you are.

John Peters – you know, the farmer? He reports finding an old oak door standing unsupported by any other structure out in the Scrublands. He says he’s sure it wasn’t there yesterday…or pretty sure, anyway. As sure as he 

 be since the 

.

Apparently there is knocking from the door, as if there were someone from some other side that does not exist in our narrow, fragile reality trying to get in.

He has added several deadbolts and chains to the door on both sides, unsure which direction the door opens. Which is, by the way, a 

 design flaw. One should always know which way a door opens merely by looking at it if the designer has done their job. And this holds true whether it’s a bank of glass doors at the mall, or an unspeakably old wooden door leading to other worlds than these.

John, meanwhile, says he will keep a sleepless vigil upon the door, as any sleep merely leads to dreams of blurry shapes in the dim distance, advancing, 

, upon this vulnerable planet.

He also says the imaginary corn is coming in real good, and we should have a nice crop to choose from soon, especially now that it will be available for sale at the Green Market.

The staff at Dark Owl Records announced today that they are 

 listening to, selling, and talking about Buddy Holly. If you want to buy music at all, you had better like Buddy Holly. If you dress like Buddy Holly, that’s cool too.

They also announced that Buddy Holly will be performing live there this Saturday night at 11:00 to promote his newest album, which is called “

”  

Organized crime is on the rise, Night Vale.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police and the Night Vale Council for Commerce are cracking down on illegal wheat and wheat by-product speakeasies. Two months ago, the City Council abolished forever all wheat and wheat by-products. But a black market appears to have formed for those 

 who can’t get enough wheat, nor its by-products. 

Big Rico’s, in light of the new laws, has had to alter its menu to mostly just bowls of stewed tomatoes, melted cheese wads, and gluten-free pizza slices. His storefront seemed to be the model of a wheat-free and wheat by-product-free society. But even the most honest businesses can turn to crime when their livelihood is on the line.

Fortunately for Big Rico he is a very nice person, and apologized to the City Council in a way that did 

 include blackmail, or secret campaign contributions, or special favors. Big Rico is just 

 for what he has done.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police say that they are upping their efforts to stop these illicit wheat and wheat by-product manufacturers. They are mostly just sniffing in the air until they smell bread. “It’s pretty easy, actually,” the Sheriff said from his hover-office in the clouds.  

More information now on Street Cleaning Day, which has come upon us just as we 

.

The information is that Street Cleaning Day is 

, and that we should all perhaps fall to our knees, letting out moans and rubbing our forearms absently.

The City Council has issued a statement indicating that they 

 they had vacation plans this week, and so are currently on a plane to Miami – as they had been planning and looking forward to for some time. They said their vacation, since it was 

 planned, has a pre-established end date, but that they cannot tell 

 what that end date is until the Street Cleaners are completely gone.

In the meantime they are leaving Paul Birmingham in charge. Paul, the vagrant who lives in a lean-to behind the Library, could not be reached for comment – as he has faked his own death in an elaborate scheme to escape Street Cleaning Day unscathed.

More, if there ever 

 more for any of us.

And now a word from our sponsors.

Today’s broadcast is sponsored by Target. 

From time to time, listeners, I like to bring a little education to our show. Throw out some interesting facts or 

Today I’d like to share some fascinating facts about clouds. Clouds are made up of [CENSORED]. Rain clouds are formed when [CENSORED] air. When the density of the humid air, AKA “the cloud,” becomes [CENSORED] that’s when it rains. Lightning is [CENSORED]. And it’s important to [CENSORED] 

, or at least cause you a great deal of body-altering pain and regret.

But take some time to stop and look at the clouds. They are beautiful, wondrous creations!  

Wait. I’ve just been handed a piece of red paper by one of the Sheriff’s Secret Police officers. I can tell that’s what he was because of his short cape, blow dart chest belt, and tight leather balaclava.  

Dear listeners, I’ve been told to inform you that you are to 

 looking at the clouds 

. Stop 

 about the clouds.

Intern Stacy tells me in my headset here that they’ve also been censoring my broadcast. Well, I back our public protectors, and if they say to stop knowing about…whatever it was was talking about, then I’ll stop knowing about it.

Let’s go now to the sounds of predatory birds.

[Sounds of predatory birds]

Sirens have been going off in 

 Night Vale as a warning about sirens going off in 

 Night Vale. These sirens indicate that sirens 

 occur in the general Night Vale area over the next few hours – which would be a declaration of a current Siren Watch. Please check that your siren preparedness kit is fully stocked and easily reachable.

Lieutenant Regis of Unit 7 of the local National Guard Station and KFC combo store said that, “It always seemed that the only way to live without regrets was just to never regret anything you did. And that seems to be the only hope for the future, anyway. Regrets just bear us down. 

.”

This wasn’t related to today’s siren watch. He said that a few years back, and it always just…stuck with me.

And now, traffic.  

Southbound HOV lanes of Route 800 near Exit 15 have large, glowing arrows. Drive over the arrows and get a boost in speed! Save time and gas, and get your high-occupancy vehicle to work on time!

There’s a stalled car at the downtown off-ramp of Eastern Expressway. Tow trucks are on the scene to euthanize the vehicle and chase away scavenging vermin.  

There are several accidents to report. In fact, 

 accidents. 

g is an accident.

This has been traffic.  

Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for us to exactly do another news report on Street Cleaning Day, as no information can get through the barricades and seals that are keeping us safe within our broadcasting bunker. Instead, we offer the following impressionistic list of what we believe is happening outside our secure perimeter: 

Ladies and gentlemen, 

, the Street Cleaners are upon us! What can we do? What 

 there to do?

Besides, perhaps, taking you in a haze of terror and heat to the weather?

[“

” by 

]

We return you now to a safe place.

The Street Cleaners have passed.

Street Cleaning Day, as so many other days, is behind us.

We emerge from hiding spots, from secret locations, from places 

 other places. We step out into the street, and it is as though it is brand new to us.

Certainly, it is cleaner now, but that is not all.

We have survived all the way from birth to this very moment, and we look at each other, and some of us start laughing, and others start weeping, and one or two of us break out into a wordless humming song. And all of us mean 

.

One of us turns to another, clears his throat, and puts a gentle hand upon the other’s gentle arm.

“I’ve never told you this,” that one says.

“What is it, Wilson?” says the other.

“Amber, you are 

 to me. Will you marry me?”

“Wilson! We’ve spoken maybe twice! Do you think we could start with dinner instead?”

“No…Yes – No, you’re right. I was confused,” says the one, although he was 

 confused.

“Think nothing of it. It’s forgotten,” says the other, although she thought 

 things of it, and had forgotten 

.

And then a gradual movement towards Mission Grove Park. No orders or even suggestions given, and yet we all file to that central meeting place, put our arms around each other, grip tight, and then grip 

.

We leave space for them, space that has been emptied by time.  

“I…suppose I should say a few words to mark the occasion,” says one of us – tall, towards the front.

He says nothing more.

The City Council arrives, back from their 

 Miami vacation, nudging those near them and talking about silver sand beaches and 

Even they are accepted into the gathering, despite our usual fears, and we grip them too, as friends.

Night has arrived, ladies. Night is here, gentlemen. Night falls on our weary bodies. And night falls on you, too. 

 have survived, survived 

 up to this moment.

Grip tight!

Hum!

Laugh!

Cry!

Forget nothing, and think many things of it.

Goodnight.

Goodnight.

Goodnight.

Episode 16 - The Phone Call


Your existence is not impossible, but it’s also not very likely.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

In light of the ever-declining sales of newspapers, and the rise of competition from digital media, the Night Vale Daily Journal announced that it has developed a new business model. Publishing editor Leann Hart, speaking to television and internet reporters outside the burned-down shell of the Journal’s former distribution plant, said their 

 mission, as a newspaper, is to 

 news bloggers with hatchets.

In this bold new initiative – a game-changing strategy by one of the industry stalwarts – the Daily Journal plans to just go to bloggers’ homes and places of employment (with hatchets) and then chop them up (the bloggers) until they (the bloggers) are dead.

She added that the Journal still plans to use the AP Style Guide and they are working to design a newer, more modern-looking masthead.

Several Journal reporters and ad reps then began swinging blades at the non-print reporters in attendance.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police is issuing an urgent message to all citizens:

Memorize this list. Memorize it now. It will not now, 

, be repeated. Memorize this list for your safety and protection. We cannot tell you when or where you will need to know it but when you do, you will be safe. Here is the list.

Memorize. 

Memorize that list, citizens, in order.

Secret Police warn that if you miss even 

 word, or transpose a couple of worlds like “lurk” and “lark,” there could be unpleasant consequences.

This has been a special announcement from the Sheriff’s Secret Police.

Listeners, guess who called me this weekend. Well, hey, I don’t like to talk too much about my personal life here. This is 

 community news station, not 

, right?

Okay, fine. I’ll just say it:

Carlos, the dark, delicate-skinned scientist who came into our little town and our littler hearts several months ago.

Well, I gave him my home phone number quite a while back, and he never called, and I didn’t think anything of it, right? I mean, sometimes people just 

, and that’s okay. Well, to the point:

Carlos calls, and I’m like, “Hello?” Like I don’t even have caller ID!

And he’s like “I need to talk to you. This is important.”

And I’m like, “Umm, OK.”

I mean, that’s pretty 

, right, listeners? But I can’t tell exactly what he wants yet.

And he said “Cecil.”

Just the 

 of his caramel voice!

“

,” he says. 

And then I said, after a slow sip of Armagnac, “Oh?”

And perfect Carlos said, “Last week: seven days, 24 hours each day, 60 minutes in each hour. That’s 10,080 minutes in a week, right?”

“Uh huh? Go on…” I said, trying to sound like someone with a normal pulse whose palms were 

 sweating.

“Well, I ran some figures, and during that same amount of time in Night Vale, 11,783 minutes elapsed everywhere else in the world. That’s more than a full day longer. I don’t know what’s happening.”

So that’s what Carlos said! Listeners, what do you think? I feel like time always slows down when we’re together, Carlos and I. Is 

 what he’s trying to say? I feel that way too!

But I didn’t say it, I just said, ohh, this is bad…I just said, 

Ugh! How embarrassing!

I mean, Carlos is 

 smart, and he says 

 many smart things! And I’m not dumb! I like science and municipally-approved books just as much as the next guy, so I can’t 

 that’s all I could say to him.

But…I did manage to ask if he wanted to get together sometime, and talk some more about this really fascinating subject. He said no…but he 

 me to help get the word out and see if anyone has noticed a massive time-shift, so that’s what I’m doing now. Anything for the scientific community; I’m very into science these days!  

Wow! Can you believe he called 

?  

Update on the impending invasion from the underground city:

The Sheriff’s Secret Police has reviewed Teddy Williams’ grainy security footage from the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, and they say that the nearly-indiscernible grey blotch making a slight movement near the cheese dispenser 

 that a lost city is moving toward war with Night Vale.

A balaclava-clad man wearing a mitre, cloak, and a giant silver star, and speaking through a vocoder – you know, the man we all believe to be the Sheriff of Night Vale? – announced this morning that all citizens should prepare their town for war.

This includes: f

We talked with Teddy himself. He told us that during last night’s league bowling tournament, the jukebox malfunctioned and would not stop playing “Mister Brownstone.” Teddy says this 

 be a code, some kind of threatening message, or maybe even a subtle call for peace.

He also asked that Night Vale citizens learn their shoe sizes. Shoe rentals are taking way too long, and it’s really not that hard to memorize a one or two-digit number.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police also asks Night Vale residents to please help in their neighborhood watch program. Secret Police are in 

 neighborhood, watching 

, so here are some tips on how you can help this invaluable community surveillance program.  

And as always, if you see something, say “something.” That’s the code word to call a special raid on a neighbor or stranger.

Now, in the news. After several months of protests from ordinary Night Vale citizens of stout and sturdy character, the City Council has announced several improvements for the Public Library. These improvements are the following:

An entrance is being constructed at the front of the building, so we will no longer have to enter by waking up between two shelves in a dizzy haze, unsure of how we got there, and then wandering around, trapped, until we wake with a start in our own beds, covered with sweat, and with a few books we checked out on our nightstand.

Drinking fountains are being installed in the lobby, as well as dunking chambers, and a state-of-the-art fainting pool.

Librarian repellent dispensers are being placed throughout the building. Remember, if approached by a librarian, keep still. 

. Try to make yourself 

 than the librarian.

Finally, the children’s section is getting beanbag chairs.

That is all.

Yes!

Yes.

And now, traffic.

All roads lead to somewhere, and all roads come 

 somewhere. And in between they are a snarl and curve, a twist and a bend. Where are we going? I mean, metaphorically? Where are we coming from? I mean, literally. Is it possible to stop, or turn around, and if not, what does that mean for the latest polls and economic reports?

Ladies and gentlemen: ladies and gentlemen, Route 800 is looking clear in both directions. The old dirt road to the small wooden shack is backed up at least thirty minutes.

There. Now you know. Has that filled an emptiness for you? Are you any happier now? I hope so.

This has been, and will 

 be, traffic.  

Listeners, I can hardly stand it any longer! During the past few stories, my phone has been silently buzzing. You guessed who!

Given that I am a radio host and it is therefore my duty to read you the news, it would be 

 inappropriate for me to answer my phone – regardless of how much I want to soak my ears in the oaky tones of our community’s most significant outsider. But…well…he left me some voice mails. This may be a bit unorthodox, but I need your help, dear listeners, to determine where Carlos is going with all of this. Let’s listen to these together, okay? What do you think he’s trying to say?

Cecil, sorry to bother you. I need you to get the word out that clocks in Night Vale are 

. I have not found a single real clock. I have disassembled several watches and clocks this week and all of them are hollow inside. No gears, no crystal, no battery or power source. Some of them actually contain a gelatinous gray lump that seems to be growing hair…and teeth. I need to know if all clocks are this way, Cecil. This is ver–

standing

Sorry about that, Cecil. I forget what I was doing. I think somebody came over…but I don’t remember who or what for.

Anyway, I need to meet you. Are you free tomorrow afternoon? You have a contact number for the mayor and someone with the police, right? It’s important that I find them. And again, can you get the word out on your radio show about the clocks?

Did you hear that, listeners? A 

 Let’s go to the weather!

[”

“ by 

]

Well, I just got off the phone with Carlos, listeners, and

 Tomorrow afternoon! It’s just coffee, but maybe it’s more! Maybe 

 more. Who knows?

You know, they always say if you’re trying to meet someone, you may never find them, but it’s when you’re 

 looking, 

 when they find 

. I’ve always heard this in reference to government agents, but I think it applies to dating as well.

Carlos 

 want me to ask if anyone has ever actually 

 the Night Vale Clock Tower. I told him that it was invisible, and always teleporting, and that’s why he can’t ever see it. I mean, that seems sort of 

.

Okay. That was unfair. Carlos is a very smart man, and I shouldn’t roll my eyes just because he doesn’t comprehend 

. He obviously has a lot of other intriguing interests, though…like clock making, and seismology. And who knows what else?

Oh happy day, listeners! Thanks for listening, and for helping me through this. I’m so very excited!

Before we go, intern Stacy just handed me this:

The Sheriff’s Secret Police would like to issue a 

 to their earlier special alert. In their warning, they stated that memorizing a very specific list would keep you safe. This is incorrect. According to the 

 statement, quote:

End quote.

That’s it for our news. Stay tuned next for a community-wide frisson of cosmic fright. Thank you again, Night Vale! May you, too, find love in this dark desert. May it be as permanent as the blinking lights, and as comforting as the dull roar of space.

Goodnight, Night Vale. 

Episode 17 - Valentine


Trust 

.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello, citizens of Night Vale. I bring you now to our ongoing coverage of the Valentine’s Day aftermath. Emergency workers have been at it since early this morning, starting the long task of cleanup and recovery.

Reports are still hazy, but we believe that the housing developments of Marshall’s Gorge 

 Golden Dunes have both been wiped completely off the map, while Coyote Corners and Cactus Bloom are reporting extensive damage to structures and power lines.

Please, if you are not directly involved in the recovery and cleanup from Valentine’s Day, stay off the roads to make room for those who are.

This Valentine’s Day, as 

 Valentine’s Days, will not succeed in bringing our city down. This Valentine’s Day, as 

 Valentine’s Days, will soon recede into painful memory, fading with time, until another foul Valentine’s Day is upon us again.

In other news, the Randy Newman Memorial Night Vale Airport has announced some schedule changes due to multiple severe weather conditions, including the existence of an atmosphere, and that strange fiery orb that appears for approximately half of every twenty-four hour period. Many of today’s flights will be delayed for several hours while the rest will be moved into the past and will have already happened last week.

All arriving flights have been canceled except those from JFK, LAX, and XTA, which will continue on the usual routine of unscheduled arrivals that are a complete surprise to both the pilots and Air Traffic Control – based on routes that appear to violate the simple laws of physics and geography.

In addition, Martin McCaffrey – local TSA representative – reminded all travelers that security measures are in place for their own safety, and we should respect the sacrifice needed to keep our lives and our country secure.

Martin said, “I know going through both a metal and full-body scanner, as well as crawling through a lengthy pitch-black tunnel while a recording of a monotone male voice lists possible ways of dying are all inconveniences, and I know that many travelers are concerned with privacy issues involving the voice of a small child that comes through strategically placed ceiling grates asking them to name every person they have ever kissed. But these are all necessary evils.”

Mister McCaffrey then went on to draw a quick sketch of a strange, elongated, dark figure crawling out of a kitchen refrigerator – after which he immediately insisted he had no memory of creating the picture and no idea what it could mean.

More on this…eventually. Probably.

Hey, here’s a health tip from the greater Night Vale medical community!

It’s possible you 

 be able to kill it. If it manages to burrow under your skin, 

, because it has already become part of you. Welcome your new bodymate! Listen to what it has to say. And see where the new symbiotic lifestyle takes you!

Emergency workers report that the damage from Valentine’s Day is worse than previously projected. They describe bodies strewn upon the ground, covered in glitter and paper cupids. Entire buildings collapsed, leaving only rubble and chalky candy hearts.

And, of course, there is the sad fate of those chosen to be another person’s Valentine. Little can be said to help the families of those unfortunates except that the process is, while 

 as ghastly and excruciating as feared, apparently 

 as horribly slow and drawn out as it appears to outside observers.

As usual, no aid has come our way from either the state or national government. The state House even went so far as to send a formal reply, the entirety of which reads:

Those monsters!

If you or anyone you know has any footage or photos of the events of Valentine’s Day, please send them directly into the station so that we may put the images and video on the radio. Thank you, and be safe.

The City Council recently moved to name “dance” as the official town language. This measure has been met with tense debate and raised voices over the past several weeks. Proponents say we need a unified language, as it will save money on municipal signage and documentation – not to mention bring us together as a community.

“The poetry of the human body,” they said, while quickly pulling in their elbows and turning their bowler hats down over their eyes in an 

 tribute to Bob Fosse, “mates physical being with mental necessity; a marriage that brings purpose to our quickly rotting living corpses.”

Opponents say that this move, if voted into law, is discriminatory against the physically handicapped. Also, less than 10% of Night Vale citizens have ever taken a 

 dance lesson – let alone achieved lifelong mastery of one of the most ethereal and difficult-to-grasp art forms.

One opponent, who asked to remain nameless out of fear of retribution, told us the bill was entirely funded by lobbyists from Cheryl’s Little Princesses Dance Studio. 

 they said.

Then the anonymous insider’s pupils grew until they eclipsed the whites. Their tongue slid out from their knife gash of a grin, and their hair would not stop graying and growing.

A final vote is expected on Tuesday.

And now, traffic.

A representative from the Sheriff’s Secret Police, waving vaguely at a map in our studio, said that there are street closures, quote “all over. Just 

 the general area,” the representative said, tapping the edge of the map with two knuckles. “A bunch of 'em, in…different places.”

We asked if he could be more specific, and he nodded, but did not say anything more. We tried naming a couple of streets to see if any of them were included on the list of closures, but the representative only replied with a, “Oh, yeah, I mean…probably!” and an ambiguous head waggle to each one. He added that anyone caught on a closed road would be dealt with in the usual manner, and then he winked and gave me a thumbs-up.

It is possible he was merely a vagrant who wandered into the studio. We didn’t bother to check his credentials. Just to be safe, though, look out for road closures 

 in the general area, listeners. They’re in a bunch of different places…probably.

This has been traffic.

And now for corrections. We offer the following corrections to previous reports broadcast on Night Vale Community Radio.

This has been corrections.

More post-Valentine’s Day news:

The Night Vale Mall’s planned Valentine’s Day art installation, involving footage of actual beating animal hearts projected on a vivisected teddy bear, was canceled due to the entire mall being flooded with poisonous gas.

The gas was described as “difficult to breathe,” and “a major cause of death to those who stood in it.”

Mall PR officials expressed regret at the cancellation, saying, “Man! It’s like every time an artist has a bold new idea, the system has to come in and shut them down!" They concluded by muttering, "It stinks man! It stinks!” before going off to sulk in the Red Cross medical tent.

Emergency workers, meanwhile, report coming across a stash of un-activated Valentine’s Day cards – forcing them to cease operations until a specialized team could be called in to deal with the danger. Three workers died before they could retreat.

Also, Night Vale Community Radio intern Stacey died, a couple of months ago, soon after our last mention of her. Our sympathies go to the loved ones of those who are lost, especially Stacey. Sorry that I didn’t get around to telling you until now, that was totally my fault.

Mayor Pamela Winchell issued the following statement today in regards to the increasing public support for her ouster and replacement by 

 inmate and blogger Hiram McDaniels.

Winchell said, “The Mayor smells of olives. The Mayor 

 like a match tip and casts her flickering light on the darkened path of fate. The Mayor does not have keys to the Stone Door; the Mayor 

 the Stone Door and all that quivers behind it. The Mayor is forgiving. The Mayor makes 

 mistakes. The Mayor clutches tightly to your lungs, all six arms embracing your savory breaths. Let the Mayor out. Let the Mayor out. Let the Mayor out.”

There were no follow-up questions, but the press pool did let out a simultaneous “

” as fire burst forth from the podium, and the conference room ceiling flew away revealing a midday night sky that had grown cancerous with blinking stars.

McDaniels is still in jail, awaiting trial for insurance fraud and evasion of arrest. He has previously announced interest in becoming mayor of Night Vale and is a 3,600-pound, five-headed dragon.

In other news, several alert citizens have reported that the Night Vale Post Office – closed since the strange and probably supernatural attack that it suffered several months ago – now appears to be open for business once again. This is good news for all of us, as we – as a city – have been unable to send or receive letters and packages since the closing. All private delivery companies of course refuse to enter the greater Night Vale area because, a FedEx spokesperson explained, “It is cursed.”

Witnesses say the post office has opened its doors and looks to be full of activity. There 

 been a few changes.

For instance, all clerks behind the counter are now strange cloth-wrapped figures who hum tunelessly and turn in place instead of doing any sort of official postal business. In addition, the entire customer line and lobby area is full of more of these cloth-wrapped figures, all similarly turning and humming. Those who have tried to enter the building have reported an immediate wave of dizziness and nausea, followed by visions of strange jagged peaks and a churning black ocean.

Also, they say, stamps now cost two cents more than a few months ago. It is not enough, apparently, for the postal service to violently assault our minds with visions, but they are 

 intent on bleeding our wallets dry. For shame!

But hey, at least everyone can get Amazon deliveries again. As their slogan says, “Amazon.com – The 

 website now. Where did the rest of them go? Do not ask. 

”

And now, the weather.  

[“

” by 

]

Ladies and gentlemen, emergency workers report that they have reached Old Town Night Vale, and 

 report that it is a scene out of a nightmare – assuming you have had the usual nightmare in which Old Town received minor structural damage and debris, with no serious injuries.

Emergency workers report that they have treated those who need treating, and have cleared away what needed clearing away.

They report that the usual stress of day-to-day life was worse…but now it seems 

. And that later, they project, it will be worse again.

Emergency workers report that they are feeling 

 about stuff in general, for once.

Emergency workers report that they are smiling, and they don’t even know why.

Emergency workers report a cloud. Just that. A cloud.

“And isn’t it funny how we often don’t notice 

 things like that?” they report.

Well, listeners. It seems perhaps that we have come through this day and reached some other side. Not unaffected, no, not unchanged, but 

. After all, this Valentine’s Day, as all Valentine’s Days, will not succeed in bringing our city down. This Valentine’s Day, as all Valentine’s Days, will soon recede into painful memory, fading with time until another foul Valentine’s Day is upon us again.

Stay tuned next for me saying 

Goodnight, Night Vale. 

Episode 18 - The Traveler


The optimist says the glass is half full. The pessimist says the glass is half empty. It is only the truth seeker who wonders, why is the glass there? Why is there water all over the floor?  Why is it covering every other surface of the house?  Who or what is doing this to us?

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners, a new traveler has arrived in Night Vale. This is not uncommon, perfectly located as we are between several vertices, but this Traveler is not one who will be mistaken for those 

 travelers – 

.

This Traveler is said to have a foreign face and a handsome, but terrible, beard. He is reportedly wearing a uniform with silver epaulets, golden braid, and buttons of a metallic alloy not describable in our limited color language. This is all very similar to the marching band uniform of the Desert Bluffs Cacti prior to 

, but The Traveler’s uniform is not scorched and soaked with blood.

“I cannot say that I trust this interloper very much, and his actions do not give me reasons to trust him,” suggests the Manual on Interlopers, published by the Sheriff’s Secret Police. According to the manual, citizens are advised to not speak with The Traveler, and to dig a shelter in their garden. Or, if they do not have a garden, to make themselves into a 

 shelter through vigilance and a positive outlook.  

Who can say what agenda The Traveler might have? He drives a large and expensive truck, he digs in the desert late at night, he does not seem adequately respectful of Forbidden Areas, and he has already married Night Vale’s third most beautiful woman: Cactus June. He persuaded her to come down from her cactus, and he has married her. I am looking at a photograph of the wedding in the newspaper at this very moment. Now, I am drinking something. [slurps] Now, I am eating an enchilada [mumbles with mouth full] that was just handed to me.

Mayor Pamela Winchell called an emergency press conference today, her fourth this week. After the usual crowd had gathered around, minus those arrested at previous press conferences, she began proceedings by vibrating slightly and staring at the sun for five straight minutes. 

And now, a public service announcement:

The Night Vale Psychological Association recommends that you spend at least 30 minutes each day 

. The NVPA cited a study showing that more than 60% of all working citizens live in a self-created dome of obstinance, distraction, and surreal fantasy. When confronted with 

 things outside of their own understanding – referred to by the psychologists as “real life” – most test subjects closed their eyes and pretend there was a spider or something on the ground.

The study 

 warn that trusting your own eyes can lead to some dangers. For instance: poltergeists, robots, and humidity 

 create visual illusions, tricking you into unsavory activities like gambling, and eating non-foods, so that they can gloat at your misfortune.

But the NVPA assures us that taking what you see at face value, even if only for a few minutes daily, is the most efficient way to live. It saves the mind from the emotional stress of self-fiction and skepticism.  

The NVPA statement adds that “you look good in that shirt, and that you should wear tighter clothing. People want to see what you look like under there!” They also ask you to just touch their back. “You don’t have to rub it. Just touch it. Just put your hand…there. God, I miss you so much!” the report concludes.

This just in: The Traveler and his wife, Cactus Judy, were seen shopping at the Ralph’s just moments ago. He was shaking his head at the fashion of our clothing, and clucking derisively at our telephones and grocery scales.  

“We have much better when I am from,” said The Traveler according to one report, which I am choosing to believe. He added, “That’s right, I said 

 and not 

.” He then winked.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police, meanwhile, are more than a little interested in the sudden reopening of Jerry’s Tacos, located on the corner of Ouroboros Road. You will recall that Jerry’s Tacos was encased in amber last summer, with Jerry inside. Now it is as if Jerry never transgressed against nature with his enchiladas.

The Traveler has been spotted in the vicinity of Jerry’s Tacos. If I were you – and I do not believe I am – I would be very careful about ordering anything off the Secret Menu at Jerry’s. Definitely do not order anything off the Forsaken Menu.

And now for corrections.

In a previous report, we at Night Vale Community Radio were talking about the commonly held belief that there is such a thing as “mountains.” We scoffed at this belief, and bellowed repeatedly, “It is flat all the way ‘round. 

”

We wrote lists of friends we knew to believe in mountains, and sent the lists to the City Council, recommending that 

 of them be put into indefinite detention. We got physically violent with an effigy labeled “Mountain Believer,” punching it repeatedly before burning it in our station’s bloodstone circle. In fact, we devoted a full day of our programming to getting together the entire station staff and screaming in unison, 

 into the microphone.

Recently, one of our previously mentioned friends – who thankfully had not yet been apprehended by the Council – took us for a drive out to a mountain. We looked at the mountain, and even 

 it, and it was definitely real. Therefore we are forced to admit there is indeed at least 

 mountain in this world, and we apologize for our previous energetic assertions to the contrary.

I’m still not 

 sold on there being more than 

 mountain. It’s possible that the mountain apologists built a single mountain in order to prove their skewed world view.

Not certain listeners, not certain…but 

.

This has been corrections.

Here now is an update. We’re getting reports that The Traveler was just seen, standing on the tailgate of his truck and addressing a small crowd of curious people.

“I have traveled here from the future. I have saved Night Vale from destruction, and I will save it again!” The Traveler reportedly said to the crowd. “You do not know this because your memories have been changed, along with the course of events. Now that I have altered the past, I cannot return to my own time. I am staying here. I will show you the way. I hope you enjoy my enchiladas.”

The Sheriff’s Secret Police said they can bring no charges against The Traveler, as Night Vale recently voted to decriminalize time travel.

Just what 

 The Traveler mean when he said he saved our town? How will he save it again? We have always trusted in the unknowable purposes of the Hooded Figures. Can we afford to abandon what we presume is their wisdom, and follow this new prophet of tomorrow?

And now, a paid editorial, sponsored by Yelp.com.

[humming and whistling – the sort which would probably receive mixed reviews on Yelp.com]

This has been a paid editorial sponsored by Yelp.com.

Here’s a look at the Community Calendar.

[“

” by 

]

Ladies and gentlemen and those of you not clearly falling into either category, it is my ambivalent duty to report that The Traveler is suddenly gone. His photograph has disappeared from the front page of the newspaper. His truck is missing. Some who reported seeing him have called back to say that they must have been mistaken, and that they have never seen anything; that they don’t even know how to open their eyes.

Perhaps he has leaped again through the stream of time, or passed to an alternate dimension created by the changes he has made to our world.

Or perhaps he was surrounded suddenly by the Hooded Figures, speaking in voices that only The Traveler could hear. Perhaps they closed in on him and he panicked as their circle tightened and tightened around him until all that could be seen by horrified onlookers were the Hooded Figures.

And perhaps, just as suddenly, the Hooded Figures were gone, and nothing remained of The Traveler except for a pile of indescribable buttons from his uniform – left scattered around the hole in the vacant lot out back of the Ralph’s.

Whatever happened, I can only say, “Farewell, Traveler.”

In other news, Jerry’s Tacos, now and forever, shall be under the management of the Hooded Figures. Plants in the vicinity of the restaurant have already begun to wilt, and animals and insects are avoiding the area. The restaurant has been renovated to resemble a nine meter-high black monolith with not visible entrance. If we learn of any change in the menu or pricing, you will be the first to know.

Finally, we are pleased to end today’s broadcast with some happy news from Night Vale’s hospital. There have been several additions to the community.

Tak Wallaby’s wife, Herschel, has given birth to an adult man’s detached hand, which they have named Meghan.

The black Dauphin has given birth to a smooth metallic pellet of astonishing density. It joins three previous pellets, with similarly curious properties, currently being kept inside a safe in the Sheriff’s Secret Police’s secret police vault.

And the beautiful widow, Cactus Jane, whose husband we no longer remember at all, is glad to bring into this world a baby boy she has named Champ. The birth was attended by several agents from a Vague, yet Menacing, Government Agency. Champ is said to be a child with a foreign face and a handsome – but terrible – beard.

Well, listeners, this has been another day, another night, another bit of time in this bit of space. I’m sitting at my desk, feet planted on old, thinning carpet, but in my mind I am anywhere 

. I am above, in the sky above, looking down at our little Night Vale. I see the lights, in grids and curves, and the places where there 

 no lights, because they are off…or missing…or invisible.

I see roads with cars and the cars have people in them. And the people are traveling through the dark in the comfort and light of the cars, and I see all of this from above. I see where the town gives way gradually to the desert; the last few lights from the last few homesteads, like stray sparks from a campfire, tossed out into the absolute black of the Scrublands and the Sand Wastes.

I see the orbit of citizen around citizen. All these ordinary Night Valians, about their ordinary lives, in this singular, extraordinary place we call home.

Moving higher into the cold, thin air of the upper atmosphere, I see below me the criss-crossed lines of contrails and chemtrails, the signature of air machines that have long since moved on; the footprint of our civilization upon the night sky.

And looking up I see only the stars, and the void, all a little closer than they were before. All 

 so un-reachably distant.

I have something of urgent importance to tell you, but I will tell it to you later. Or I will tell it to you not at all. Certainly I will not tell it to you now. Now I merely look, from the vantage point of my own imagination, down at a town busy with its own existence.

And, for now, existence is enough. Stay tuned next for an exact word-for-word repeat of this broadcast, that will seem to you imperceptibly but unshakably different…although you will never be able to explain 

.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 19A - The Sandstorm (Night Vale)


Blinking red light in the night sky. The future is changing, but it’s hard to tell.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners, the City Council announced moments ago that a sandstorm will be arriving Night Vale in just a few minutes. They apologize that they did not announce this sooner, but they just kind of let their morning slip away from them.

“You know how it is,” they said in unison. “You think, 

 But then you have to get some coffee, and you run into your coworker friends, and then you check your email, and maybe a glance at Facebook…and you just lose track of time. You know…” they concluded.

The sandstorm is projected to be the largest in decades, and meteorologists warned that high winds and debris from the desert could cause millions in damage. They also said that if you’re not already inside with windows closed, doors locked, and eyes shut tight, then your future will probably be very different.

Meteorologists then warned that raccoons are actually pretty dangerous animals despite how adorable they seem, and never, 

 feed baby raccoons, because the mother raccoon will definitely attack you.

“Have you ever had rabies shots? Oh, it is the 

,” the meteorologists continued as the press corps got restless and hoped that the meteorologists would just 

.

“God, meteorologists just don’t know when to stop!” the entire press corps moaned.  

So, take cover, Night Vale. Hide in your homes and offices, and pretend that mere walls are enough to protect you from nature’s might and life’s brevity and meaninglessness.

Keep your radios tuned in here; we’ll keep you up to date.

Hey, sports fans! Assuming we’re all still here after today, it’s time for baseball season. This Saturday is the minor league home opener for the Night Vale Spider Wolves. They’ll be taking on bitter rivals, the Desert Bluffs Sunbeams.

The Spider Wolves are fielding a very young but promising pitching staff this year. Fans are especially excited to see 20 year-old hometown hero Trevin Murphy get his first chance in the starting rotation. Murphy graduated Night Vale High School two years ago and immediately joined the Spider Wolves – just after they discovered that he could use his telepathic powers to cripple batters emotionally, often sending them into weeks-long slumps and fits of crying, even while playing in the field.

The Sunbeams have some changes in their team as well. This off-season, they got a new owner and a new manager, because they’re terrible. 

 Who even cares?

And now, traffic.

Highway officials are warning all Night Vale residents to 

 The sandstorm is making travel nearly impossible. We are told that several cars have stalled near the southbound off-ramp at Exit 6 on Route 800. Traffic officers reported that each car screeched to a halt, and through the rushing sand they could see dozens of drivers and passengers running into the road, pairing off, and then fighting. They noted that each fighting pair seemed to be of the same build, gender, age, and were wearing the 

.

Also, unrelated to the sandstorm, all stop signs and traffic lights have been taken down for their bi-monthly polishing. They’ll be back from the cleaners on Tuesday, officials said.

Listeners, thank you for your calls and emails. We’re getting word that the sandstorm has already begun to hit. Larry Leroy, out on the edge of town, called moments ago to say that the sand was thick and really flying fast – but that when it touched his skin, he could hardly feel it. He could hardly feel a thing, that the past was a fiction, and that consequences were a choice.

He saw colors and shapes instead of familiar things like stoves and ponies. He shouted a bright confirmation of life up toward the sand-covered sun before gasping and screaming, “No! Not you! Not you!” and then hanging up the phone.  

Well, thank you, Larry, for that informative report. We’ll certainly keep that in mind.

Old Woman Josie has not called, but intern Dana said that Old Woman Josie updated her Facebook page with an Instagram of some rune stones. Dana has been furiously translating these symbols, and her best guess is that they say “They come in twos. 

 come in twos. 

 and 

. 

”

There’s also a link to this amazing cat that keeps jumping in and out of boxes and oh my God, that is the 

 Dana, you have got to post that on my wall! Oh my God, he loves those boxes so much!

And now, a look at financial news.  

A fallow wheat field, gray sky, cut by black Vs of black birds.

There is a child, dragging a hatchet. His eyes cast down. His eyes tight. His eyes white and red and superfluous. He knows not what he sees, but he knows what is there.

A single black winged beast – beak cracked, feathers rotting – alights roughly on the child’s shoulder. They stop. The bird picks at the cartilage of the boy’s ear as if biting secrets into it. The boy groans, not unpleasantly.

Heavy slow clouds roll and rise, starkly contrasted against the flickering daguerreotype hills, which stoically keep the poisonous rains at bay.

A sudden little river, partially walled by palsied shafts of grain, rolls by. The boy walks into it. He bends forward. His blank eyes stare into his reflection. Neither he nor his mirror knows the other is there, but the bird…the bird knows. The bird cackles, or perhaps cries. Even the bird is uncertain. The boy takes a palm full of the dark water. Most of it runs out through his long, zigzagging fingers. He licks the remainder from his dusty skin.

A sound –  like thunder, like drums, like steps. The boy turns and hurls his hatchet behind him. The bird flies up and away. There is a hideous thump. The boy knows not what he has hit, but that it has been wounded. He waits for its retort.

This has been financial news.

This just in, Night Vale: Mayor Pamela Winchell has declared a state of emergency. She has asked that if you are still outside, 

A second announcement, shortly after, says that she was 

 and that 

A third announcement followed, requesting that you 

The press conference then erupted into shouts of “Phony!” and “Impostor!” as the press corps suddenly doubled and began fighting itself.

Night Vale, do be careful. I fear the sandstorm to be quite a terrible event. Please, stay safe inside, and should you see yourself, 

 I just don’t believe violence is ever the answer. It is a question. The real answer is far more terrifying. So, make peace with your double, Night Vale. Do not be tempted to draw swords or guns. 

Oh, dear. What…what was that noise? Dana? Is everything okay in there, Dana? Who are you fighting? Dana, put down that letter opener! Dana, put away the– I’m coming in there.

Um, let’s go to a word from our sponsor.  

Got a home improvement project? Need help?

Incomplete?

Having feelings? Strange feelings? Feelings you’ve never felt?

Incomplete?

Is your body filled with hot blood, waving curves of sinew, and skin? Can you feel all that blood? Is it even your blood? How can you be sure? Incomplete? Are you dizzy from it all, all of this? What are your hands doing?

Incomplete?

Where are your hands now? Where have they been? Where are they going? Where are 

 going?

Have you ever broken the surface of something with a hammer? Ever channeled sublime thought into sandpaper? Ever wanted to touch something because you feel things, because touch is the only sense you trust?

Incomplete?

What is trust? Is making a thing proof that you exist? Is 

 a thing proof that you have transcended mortality? History?

Incomplete?

Feel things? Feel things?

You can do it. We can help. The Home Depot. 

Listeners, I have some bad news and some, uh, good news. Dana is dead! But the other Dana is alive, and I don’t know which is the original and which is the double. Right now, one of the Danas is standing above her own corpse, panting. I cannot tell if she is grinning or grimacing.

When I went in she had, clutched in one hand, a broken stapler…and in the other, a printout of this email from…oh, God. This is the bad news I was talking about. An email from 

 I don’t even want to read an email from that jerk, but if printing it out was one of the Dana’s final actions, I must honor her efforts.

Steve– ugh! Steve writes: “The sandstorm is clearly a cover-up. I believe this was a government-created project. Our government has long been participating in cloud-seeding experiments, and trying to suppress the people with pharmaceuticals. I believe that this government will stop at nothing in order to–”

You’re not saying anything new, Steve. 

 the sandstorm was created by the government! The City Council 

 The government makes no secret that they can control the weather, and earthquakes, and monitor thoughts and activities. That’s the stuff a big government is supposed to do! Obviously, you have never read the Constitution!

Okay, sure, government can be very inefficient, and sometimes bloated and corrupt, but the answer is not to complain about everything that they do. Without government, we would never have schools or roads or municipal utilities or helpful pandemics or black vans that roam our neighborhoods at night keeping us safe.

So please, Steve Carlsberg, I’ve had 

 of your government-bashing!

And with that, dear listeners, let’s go to the– …oh, my. Look at that.

Listeners, there is a black – almost indigo – vortex that has formed along my studio wall.

Listeners, words fail me. It is so beautiful!

I can’t leave you, as our show is not yet over, but…there must be something beyond this 

, Night Vale. I must see what it is! I must go! I will try not to be long, listeners. I will try not to be long…

 

[“

” performed by 

]

Hello? Night Vale? I told you I would be back.

It took longer than I thought, but I have returned from whatever horrible place I have gone.

Along the way, in the vortex, I saw a grotesque man. A foul devil of a man. And he 

 I tried to choke him to death, but I remembered. I remembered what I told you, and I let him live. I let that woeful beast live. I am sure he is not without his wounds and bruises, and I pity that he must return to that awful, awful place from whence he came and to where I most unfortunately visited.

But somehow, I am happy he is alive.

That I am alive.

That you are alive.

That we are alive.

Outside the winds are subsiding, the sun sweeping away our pains. I am sure there is blood staining the streets – the graffiti of our sins, the writings of an immoral but necessary battle, I presume. The bodies of some replaced by others who were – we were – all the same to begin with.

And we are healing.

Those of us, whoever we are, who survived. Those others of us, whoever we are, who conquered.

We are home, Night Vale! You and I are together again! My mouth, your ears, we have 

And for now, and always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 19B - The Sandstorm (Desert Bluffs)


Hello? Hello? Night Vale? What is this studio? What is this damnable studio?

Night Vale? I do not know if you can hear me. This is Cecil, and I do not know where I am. It is clearly a radio studio, but the walls are covered in blood, and instead of dials and buttons on the soundboard, there is just animal viscera, glistening under the green LED lights. I hope this microphone works. Am I in hell?

Dana? Dana, can you hear me?

Listeners, if you can hear the sound of my voice, please contact the Sheriff’s Secret Police. There is so much blood, it is seeping into my shoes! There are – oh, masters of us all, no! – 

 scattered across the floor. The window into the control booth is shattered and there is a swath of skin and a fistful of long clumping hair hanging from a sharp glass point! I do not know if this is even Night Vale.

I know that I can hear the sandstorm raging outside. There is a low buzz and deep hum that might be my own heart ready to tear itself from my chest in horror or grief – I cannot know which.

There is a photo, a single photo of a man on the desk here. He is wearing a tie. He is not tall or short, not thin or fat. His hair and nose are like mine, but his eyes…his eyes are black as obsidian and his smile–

No. It is not a smile!

He must be wicked, this man!

Dear Night Vale, please pray in your bloodstone circle for me and pray, too, that no one should ever have to meet this 

 of a man.  

I want to be home, Night Vale! Oh, Cecil, you fool! The vortex…the vortex is still there. But here, it is white.

Okay. Dear listeners, from this vile, vile place, I leave you to your prison, but before I go, because I am a radio professional and it is sitting right here on this blood-spattered desk, I give you the weather.  

[“

” performed by 

]

Episode 2 - Glow Cloud


The desert seems vast, even endless, and yet scientists tell us that somewhere, even now, there is snow.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

The Night Vale Tourism Board’s “Visit-able Night Vale” campaign has kicked off with posters encouraging folks to take their family on a scenery-filled jaunt through the trails of Radon Canyon.

Their slogan? “The view is literally breathtaking.”

Posters will be placed at police stations and frozen yogurt shops in nearby towns, along with promotional giveaways of plastic sheeting and re-breathers.

And now, the news.

Have any of our listeners seen the glowing cloud that has been moving in from the west? Well, John Peters – you know, the farmer? He saw it over the western ridge this morning. Said he would have thought it was the setting sun if it wasn’t for the time of day.

Apparently the cloud glows in a variety of colors, perhaps changing from observer to observer, although all report a low whistling when it draws near.

One death has already been attributed to the Glow Cloud. But listen, it’s probably nothing. If we had to shut down the town for every mysterious event that at least one death could be attributed to, we’d never have time to do anything, right?

That’s what the Sheriff’s Secret Police are saying, and I agree. 

The Apache Tracker, and I remind you that this is that white guy who wears the huge and cartoonishly inaccurate Indian headdress, has announced that he has found some disturbing evidence concerning the recent incident at the Night Vale Post Office, which has been sealed by the City Council since the great screaming that was heard from it a few weeks ago.

He said that using ancient Indian magics, he slipped through council security into the post office, and observed that all the letters and packages had been thrown about as in a whirlwind.

That there was the heavy stench of scorched flesh.

That the words written in blood on the wall said, “More to come, and soon.”

Can you believe this guy said he used Indian magics? What an asshole!

Here’s something odd: there is a cat hovering in the men’s bathroom at the radio station here. He seems perfectly happy and healthy, but it’s floating about four feet off the ground next to the sink. Doesn’t seem to be able to move from its current hover-spot. If you pet him, he purrs, and he’ll rub on your body like a normal cat if you get close enough. Fortunately, because he’s right by the sink, it was pretty easy to leave some water and food where he could get it, and it’s nice to have a station pet.

Wish it wasn’t trapped in a hovering prison in the men’s bathroom, but listen: no pet is perfect. It becomes perfect when you learn to accept it for what it is.

And now a message from our sponsors.

I took a walk on the cool sand dunes, brittle grass overgrown, and above me in the night sky above me I saw. Bitter taste of unripe peaches and a smell I could not place nor could I escape.

I remembered other times that I could not escape. I remembered other smells.

The moon slunk like a wounded animal. The world spun like it had lost control.

Concentrate only on breathing, and let go of ideas you had about nutrition and alarm clocks.

I took a walk on the cool sand dunes, brittle grass overgrown, and above me in the night sky above me I saw.

This message was brought to you by Coca Cola.

The City Council, in cooperation with government agents from a vague yet menacing agency, is asking all citizens to stop by the Night Vale Elementary School gymnasium tonight at 7:00 for a brief questionnaire about mysterious sights that definitely no one saw and strange thoughts that in no way occurred to anyone. 

Remember: if you see something, say nothing. And drink to forget.

The Boy Scouts of Night Vale have announced some slight changes to their hierarchy, which will now be the following: Cub Scout, Boy Scout, Eagle Scout, Blood Pact Scout, Weird Scout, Dreadnought Scout, Dark Scout, Fear Scout, and finally, Eternal Scout.

As always, sign-up is automatic and random, so please keep an eye out for the scarlet envelope that will let you know your son has been chosen for the process.

This is probably nothing listeners, but John Peters – you know, the farmer – he reports that the Glow Cloud is directly over Old Town Night Vale, and appears to be raining small creatures upon the earth. Armadillos, lizards, a few crows, that kind of thing.

Fortunately, the animals appear to be dead already, so the Night Vale Animal Control Department has said that it should be a snap to clean those up. They just have to be tossed on the eternal animal pyre in Mission Grove Park, so, if that’s the worst the Glow Cloud has for us, I say go ahead and do your daily errands. Just bring along a good strong umbrella capable of handling falling animals up to, say, ten pounds.

More on the Glow Cloud as it continues to crawl across our sky.

And hey, here’s a tip, take your kids out and use the Cloud’s constantly mutating hue to teach him or her the names of colors. It’s fun, and it shows them the real-life applications of learning.

Alert: the Sheriff’s Secret Police are searching for a fugitive named Hiram McDaniels, who escaped custody last night following a 9:00 PM arrest. McDaniels is described as a five-headed dragon, approximately 18 feet tall, with mostly green eyes, and weighing about 3600 pounds. He is suspected of insurance fraud.

McDaniels was pulled over for speeding last night, and the Secret Police became suspicious when he allegedly gave the officers a fake driver’s license for a five foot eight man named Frank Chen. After discerning that Frank Chen was actually a five-headed dragon from somewhere other than our little world, the Secret Police searched McDaniels’ vehicle.

Representatives from local civil rights organizations have protested that officers had no legal grounds to search the vehicle, but they ceded the point when reminded by Secret Police officials that our backwards court system will uphold any old authoritarian rule made up on the fly by unsupervised gun-carrying thugs of a shadow government.

The Secret Police say McDaniels escaped custody by breathing fire from his purple head, and he was last seen flying and shrieking over Red Mesa.

Secret Police are asking for tips leading to the arrest of Hiram McDaniels. They remind you that, if seen, he should not be approached, as he is literally a five headed dragon. Contact the Sheriff’s Secret Police if you have any information. Ask for Officer Ben.

Helpful tipsters will earn one stamp on their Alert Citizen card. Collect five stamps, and you get stop sign immunity for one year.

And now, a look at the community calendar.

Saturday, the Public Library will be unknowable. Citizens will forget the existence of the library from 6:00 AM Saturday morning until 11:00 PM that night. The library will be under a sort of renovation. It is not important what kind of renovation.

Sunday is Dot Day. Remember, red dots on what you love, blue dots on what you don’t. Mixing those up can cause permanent consequences.

Monday, Louie Blasco is offering bluegrass lessons in the back of Louie’s Music Shop. Of course, the shop burned down years ago, and Louie skipped town immediately after with his insurance money, but he’s sent word that you should bring your instrument to the crumbled ashy shell of where his shop once was, and pretend that he is there in the darkness teaching you. The price is $50 per lesson, payable in advance.

Tuesday afternoon, join the Night Vale PTA for a bake sale to support Citizens For a Blood Space War. Proceeds will go to support neutron bomb development and deployment to our outer solar system allies.

Wednesday has been canceled due to a scheduling error.

And on Thursday is a free concert. And…that’s all it says here.

New call in from John Peters – you know, the farmer? Seems the Glow Cloud has doubled in size, enveloping all of Night Vale in its weird light and humming song.

Little League administration has announced that they will be going ahead with the game, although there will be an awning built over the field due to the increase in size of the animal corpses being dropped. I’ve had multiple reports that a lion, like the kind you would see on the sun-baked plains of Africa, or a pee-stained enclosure at a local zoo, fell on top of the White Sand Ice Cream Shop. The shop is offering a free dipped cone to anyone who can figure out how to get the thing off.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police have apparently taken to shouting questions at the Glow Cloud, trying to ascertain what exactly it wants. So far, the Glow Cloud has not answered.

The Glow Cloud does not need to converse with us. It does not feel as we tiny humans feel. It has no need for thoughts or feelings of love.

The Glow Cloud simply is.

All hail the mighty Glow Cloud!

All hail!

And now, slaves of the Cloud, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Sorry, listeners. Not sure what happened in that earlier section of the broadcast – as in I actually 

 what happened. Tried to play back the tapes, but they’re all blank, and smell faintly of vanilla.

The Glow Cloud, meanwhile, has moved on. It is now just a glowing spot in the distance, humming east to destinations unknown. We may never fully understand, or understand at all what it was and why it dumped a lot of dead animals on our community.

But, and I’m going to get a little personal here, that’s the essence of life, isn’t it?

Sometimes you go through things that seem huge at the time, like a mysterious glowing cloud devouring your entire community. While they’re happening they feel like the only thing that matters, and you can hardly imagine that there’s a world out there that might have anything else going on.

And then the Glow Cloud moves on. And 

 move on. And the event is behind you. And you may find that, as time passes, you remember it less and less. Or absolutely not at all, in my case.

And you are left with nothing but a powerful wonder at the fleeting nature of even the most important things in life – and the faint but pretty smell of vanilla.

Dear listeners, here is a list of things.

Goodnight, listeners. Goodnight.

Episode 20 - Poetry Week


 says a whisper behind you.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners, today begins Night Vale Poetry Week – one of our most sacred town traditions.

As you know, every citizen is required to write hundreds of poems. 

 poems. During this time, the City Council lifts their bans on writing utensils, thesauruses, and public descriptions of the moon. And they mandate that everybody uses their municipally granted Free Will to join in on the fun.

Last year over 800,000 poems were written by Night Vale residents, and then eaten during the Poetry Week’s closing ceremonies by real live Librarians who were chained to titanium posts inside double-locked steel cages.

Honestly, listeners, I don’t think it’s a good idea to ever have Librarians out in public, no matter how secure the posts or cages are. I know there were no serious injuries 

 year, but some of you older listeners might remember what happened in 1993, when an unchecked Librarian population resulted in the loss of many innocent and screaming book lovers.

But that was twenty years ago. Let’s not dwell on our corpse-strewn past. Let’s celebrate our corpse-strewn future!  

On the show today, we’ll be featuring some poems sent in by listeners from all over Night Vale. We’ll start with this one. Last night Night Vale’s Poet Laureate, Trilety Wade, with clenched teeth and frightened eyes, delivered the opening stanzas for the Poetry Week festivities. Here is what she read:

I fell in love with a Hooded Figure

who tied my tongue with an ink ligature,

and silently urged I write this poem.

Please believe me I wasn’t forced,

through bone telepathy or the code of Morse

to pen this uncoded, un-subversive gem.

On the desert farms, the ghost-eyed maidens make the cheese

while a maelstrom of thick milk falls with ease.

Our punishment? Hot-blooded clotted cream.

The days here pass like cancerous sunspots

and black metal trees can’t compare to Car Lots.

You are in Night Vale. Welcome.

Wade capped off her reading by screaming, “It is lies! It is lies!” before separating into minute white particles and fluttering away on a swirling breeze. Like soft snow, she covered our hair and light coats. And, like snow, it smelled of fennel and meat. Then, a voice announced over the P.A., “Everything is perfect in our little town!”

Poetry Week has begun, Night Vale. It’s going to be a great one.

This weekend, the Night Vale Zoo finally reopens after last month’s renovations. Among the new features are fences and plexiglass to separate the animals from each other, and from zoo patrons. Zoo officials promise that they focused 

 on the tiger, bear, spider, and snake areas in this regard.

Another new feature is the Sensory Extraction Room, where a randomly selected zoo goer will be dropped into a pitch black soundproof booth or two straight days, while zookeepers harvest their scent and teach it to genetically improved predators.

They’ve also unveiled a new logo, featuring a swan being eaten by a giraffe, and a new slogan:

So come join in on the fun this weekend! Slow-moving children with more than 15% body fat get in free!

Oh, I can’t wait anymore listeners. Poetry Week has to be the most wonderful time of the year. Let’s get back to some fantastic poems that have been sent in. Some of them are even from our city officials, like Mayor Pamela Winchell, who put her quill to parchment and sent us this lovely stanza:

No one will

have to be

anyone

ever again.

In fact,

it will not

be

allowed.

That poem also doubles as recently-enacted legislation, enforced by the Sheriff’s Secret Police. Thank you, Mayor!

And now – and this is very special – a poem written by the Sheriff himself. Here goes:

The town criers have cross-stitched their mouths shut

and stapled their eyes open.

The benches are all broken.

No one sits down anyway.

No one can fit

their broken wings beneath their cloaks.

A skin condition

that makes its victims appear timelessly sad

afflicts most.

Prominent citizens drown in the carpool lane.

Their makeup floats to the surface.

Wine glasses clink together.

They hate each other.

They clink until one breaks

and then the other.

There is no such thing as vagrants.

There is no such thing as home.

The sun has a tick.

No one can afford flowers,

but the children

stand very still in the garden

until the cold snap cracks.

Very pretty! Thank you, Sheriff.

And now a poem set in by Irena Panchyk, a third grade teacher from Night Vale Elementary. It is called “Street Cleaning Day.”

Run.

Run.

Remain calm.

Run.

Where are my children?

Do I have children?

Run.

Run.

Remain calm.

Run.

I know.

I know where.

They will not go.

But what way?

Again, the announcement.

Run.

Run.

Remain calm.

Run.

They are coming.

I must choose.

I have chosen.

Save myself.  

Thank you, Mrs. P!  You did the right thing.

Madeline LaFleur, executive director of the Night Vale Tourism Board, sent in a piece of paper that just reads, in all caps:

TOURISM

IS

IMPORTANT.

Below that is a reddish-brown smudge shaped like an underfed hawk alighting upon a mesquite tree. She also scotch taped what appear to be three human molars to the page.

Y’know, at first I thought, “This is 

 poetry. This is 

 art!” But that’s mere semantics. We are 

 poetry, Night Vale. Every breath or branch or sigh before another hopeless night of uneasy slumber is itself a verse in a great poem.  

Oh, here’s a question, listeners!

Have you seen those new billboards all over town recently? They have no pictures, just hyper-bright and colorful text that reads “20% off everything! We’re going to take 20% off everything! Every thing! We’re 

”

There’s no store or brand associated with the advertisements, and the Highway Department said there’s no record that anyone owns the billboards, or that they were ever put up.

“They just appeared one day, and we all sort of accepted that they were there,” a representative from the city told us.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police warned that the advertisement appears to be 

, and that soon, 20% of 

 might indeed be gone. They are still investigating as to whether or not we have a choice of which 20% gets taken off and where that 20% goes. Scientists say that the 20% must go 

, because of something to do with something called “thermodynamic laws,” but police officials remind us that scientists are comedians, and that they should stick to comedy.

Let’s have a look at traffic.

Old Town Night Vale resident Katherine Ciel just sent in the following report of what’s happening out there on the roads. Katherine writes:

On Sunday, a lambent crevice

opened up in the street outside my house.

By Tuesday, birds were flying into it.

“I probably won’t miss you,” my mother said.

“I’m only interested in the end of the world,” I replied.

Many find it difficult to breathe

without the atmosphere,

but we knew how;

we just stopped breathing.

We’re at the Moonlight All-Night Diner,

and they’re serving up fruit

from the plants growing out of the waitress.

The closed sign whispers, “Please, don’t touch me.”

We watch bodies fall to the ground outside

like deep sea creatures surfacing.

You turn to me and ask,

“Do you ever think about suicide?”

I look away from you and close my eyes,

eat the raspberries to confuse the blood in my mouth.

Now you’re in the only car in the parking lot at midnight

and you’re watching me throw stones at the moon

which hangs low in the sky

so that he can look into your house.

Your sister tried to touch him

from her window once,

and he flinched.

Now he and the oceans watch her with a quiet concern.

The lilac sky is trying to rest her head on his shoulder,

all trees gradually growing through her.

A hummingbird whispers to you,

“Be careful. Under her dress is her skin,”

and then builds his nest in the middle of the highway.

I look back to you,

and you close your eyes.

So, Night Vale, it sounds like you should use some alternate routes today. Thank you, Katherine, for that report.

This has been traffic.  

An update now on Poetry Week: a strange thing has happened, listeners. A note was posted at the entrance to the Dog Park. I’m told the note is on paper that is black like the ocean of space and the text is…well, it’s not white, really more transplendent, radiating its strange free verse message from the dark page. The message reads:  

Today they scratched me from sleep,

nails unhinged,

carving my name in cement.

Ash stains my pillow

and bruises the shape of spiders

climb my neck.

Sunlight catches dust and

broken glances between strangers

dodging desert puddles

of something metallic.

I’m highly contagious,

quarantined to another body

I’ve since infected.

I will sleep into you

if you hold me too tightly.

I assemble your letters

left torn in the pocket of a hospital gown.

I stain the paper with sweat.

I’m beginning to steal your voice.

The voice that lies, dying, in the Dog Park.  

The poem is signed with just the letter “E.”

Listeners, while I certainly love luxuriating in the language of a good poem, I do 

 condone entering the Dog Park. 

Dogs and dog owners are not allowed in the Dog Park. Please, disregard this renegade poet’s radical lies and stay away.

Oh, I fear the damage is done, listeners. Whoever this “E” is must now know we are all now in grave danger.  

And now, a word from our sponsor.

With low interest rates, now is the perfect time to buy a home. Just name your amenity! Every house in Night Vale has a luxurious view of The Void. We also have great schools and plenty of spiders! Who 

 want to settle down in Night Vale?

Seek a licensed realtor to help you find the house of your dreams! Realtors live inside deer. When you find an undersized stag or ailing doe you can catch, simply wrestle it down and knife open the chest cavity. Then let the realtor inside help you achieve your American dream.

The head of the Greater Night Vale Realty Association, Russell Swenson, says:

“No one has lived here for years.

You’re one of them.

One of the 

.

A woman is a fire,

and no one is invited.

Anyone can watch.

No one can help.”

Hey, Dana?  Is this a poem Russell wrote for us, or…?

Ahem.

So, start looking today for your new Night Vale home. As the old saying goes, “streets swallow their own tails and choke!”

Listeners, oh, this is bad news:

The gates to the Dog Park have been opened for the first time anyone can recall. In fact, no one even 

 there were gates. We’ve only ever seen tall black walls with no visible entrance or exit, but there are gates, and apparently they’re just standing wide open.

Witnesses say that inside you can see a couple of old tennis balls, some frisbees, and a black stone monolith that is humming a hum that makes everyone who hears it feel calm, and ever-so-slightly more sensual.

The City Council issued a statement moments ago, which was a series of ancient glyphs. No one could read the language, but we all understood what it said. It was a dire warning. A warning to the mysterious “E.” A warning to those by the Dog Park. A warning to 

. A great pain, a great piercing, a great scream that will soon break apart our sky and our lives if this insolence does not stop!  

If you are near the Dog Park, listeners, 

 The Monolith, or whatever think you see, is not for you to know. Public property is 

 for citizens. Stay home, Night Vale. Write your poems. This should be a fun and festive time to write government-mandated rhymes, not storming the shores of hell and bringing us all to war with you.

I’ve just sent intern Dana (or intern Dana’s doppelganger, I am still unsure) to the Dog Park to warn those who are standing so near to their demise. I only hope Dana is in time to save them.

Let us go now, possibly for the last time, to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Old Woman Josie called during the break and said that the mysterious “E” is one of the Angels, and that the “E” stands for Erika.  

“Erica?” I asked.

“No, no, Erika, with a K,” she said.  

“Oh, Erika, with a K,” I said.

And then there was a weird pause, and then she said, “All Angels go by the name Erika.”

And then I was like, “Right, right, right,” and then I felt dumb, because that’s, like, the 

 thing you learn in seventh-grade transmigration studies.

Anyway…

The City Council, in a press conference said, “Oh! An Angel wrote that? Well, okay then, never mind. Sure! We’ll show you the Monolith! Come on in.”

And so those on the streets outside the Dog Park entered. And the City Council showed them the Monolith, welcoming all with friendly upturned palms.

But some witnesses resisted. Their conservatism served them well, for the tall black gates soon closed, vanishing into the smooth onyx walls, taking the Dog Park visitors with them.

No entrance.

No exit.

There may never be either again.

Sadly, intern Dana (or her double) was inside the Dog Park when it was sealed. And listeners, I hesitate to tell you but, as a journalist, I think I must: intern Dana (or her double) texted me a photo of the Monolith just before the gates closed. Did you know? There is an inscription at its base. And get this: right here, on this, the first day of Poetry Week, the inscription is a poem.

According to the plaque, the poem was written in 1954 by former Night Vale mayor Danielle DuBois, quote “In honor of nothing, that should never not be unknown.”

The poem reads:

The gentle man in glow light

is a candle in his maybes.

His face is a loamy bog.

Do you ever stop to look at all the blood you gather?

Metal halos spring from your attention.

She said, “watch with all your eyes

lest chance again escape you.”

Said, “chalk’s wasted on blind children,”

wrote today’s specials on the board.

What’s blessed entry in this weather?

I heard it tapping, but it doesn’t leave a trail.

When you catch a beating heart in the wild,

you hold it squirming and say, “that is that.”

But the damn thing keeps on moving

‘til you squeeze it in your hands.

I know not what the Monolith’s poem hides, Night Vale, nor if there will be any consequences for my actions today.

But I 

 know it is Poetry Week. It is only the beginning of our favorite fun and festive time of year. Let’s not think about what we’re not allowed to know! Let’s think about what is 

 to know!

And let’s start with the beauty of our words. So get out those pens and dust off your iambs and couplets.

Also, intern Dana (or your double), you will be missed. I tried texting you back, but now there’s just blood seeping up through some newly-formed crack on my touchscreen, so…I think that’s a no go.

Goodbye, Dana.

And to the rest of you, goodbye too, but with the hint of a future hello. Stay tuned next for the sound of some helpless thing being eaten.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 21 - A Memory of Europe


Hang a map of a place you’ll never go on your living room wall. Draw new streets. Tear off bodies of water. Wait for news crews to arrive.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Teddy Williams – owner of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex – has reported that he is starting an around-the-clock militia watch on the entrance to the buried city beneath the pin retrieval area of Lane Five. This watch will consist of a line of patriotic volunteers, armed to the teeth and forming an unbroken perimeter along the whole of the bowling area.

Teddy admits that this will make bowling slightly more difficult than usual, and league games may have to be rescheduled…or made illegal. But he adds that this is a small price to pay for safety.

The other price for safety is $2.25, which is how much he would like every single good Night Vale citizen to pay him for this important defensive service against the unknown – but presumably fearsome and dangerous – aggressors from the buried city.

Witnesses have reported seeing the Apache Tracker out back of the Bowling Alley, in fervent discussion with a Man in a Tan Jacket. Sheriff’s Secret Police report that the conversation was too quiet for them to hear, and reminds all citizens to please hold all conversations in a loud, declamatory manner, facing outward, and making dramatic gestures to increase both the ease and excitement of their surveillance duties.

The Man in the Tan Jacket was described as “impossible to remember,” but presumably a 

 of some kind, with 

, and 

.

The Apache Tracker was described as a 

, just now, by me.  

Listeners, the coming of the first gentle winds of Spring has brought me back to my college years. And to the late spring I spent backpacking through Europe. Truly, this is a milestone in the life of any young person able to afford it, and I am thankful for the opportunity.

I remember spending a wonderful period in the country of Svitz. 

The situation was made stranger by the fact that I don’t remember 

 a traveling partner before or after Svitz. Who was he? Who knows? It all seemed perfectly normal at the time.

I also don’t know how long I stayed in Svitz, rolling down that hill and climbing up again. What with the tones on the breeze, the intoxicating smell from those flowers, and the fact that it was never any time but the middle of the night, it was difficult to keep track. 

Eventually I was knocked out on one of our falls and when I awoke, it was in a different country. I had aged by years, and no one I talked to knew where the country of Svitz was, or even had heard of it.

Anyway, it was a lovely place, and I would say it’s a must-see for any European traveler that can find it.  

Trish Hidge, from the mayor’s office, called a press conference today in which she stood in front of a large truck, painted in bright neon colors and decorated with flashing lights, and resolutely 

 the truck’s existence.

She continued this denial for several minutes, and through a lengthy round of questioning from the gathered reporters – although it should be noted that many of the questions took the form of just pointing at the truck and raising an eyebrow.

Ms. Hidge admitted afterwards that the conference was simply a workout for her denial skills, which she says she must keep sharp through constant practice…and which she also says do not exist. She was then heard to deny the sky, the existence of a loving deity, and eggs.

“Eggs aren’t real,” she said. “Nuh-uh! Show me an egg! That’s not an egg! What’s an egg? Who let you in here?”

Simone Rigadeau – the transient living in a recycling closet in the Earth Sciences building at Night Vale Community College – released a statement today, saying that the world has ended.

“The world ended three or four decades ago,” she scrawled on a Subway sandwich wrapper. “I don’t know what this thing is that we’re living in, but it’s not the world. Scientists won’t investigate it because they’re not real. Turkey with extra Swiss.”

I think that last bit was already written on the wrapper by a Subway sandwich artist, or one of their familiars.

Well…provocative stuff from one of the foremost minds in the Earth Sciences building, ever since it was condemned by the city as unsafe and left vacant.

Has the world ended? What would the world ending even mean? And how did Simone get this Subway wrapper, given that all Subway restaurants have many entrances, but 

? As their motto goes, “A thousand ways in, no way out. Eat fresh. Eat so terribly, 

 fresh. 

, terrifyingly fresh.”

For more on this world-ending story, we now go live to the sound of an aquarium pump.

[Sound of an aquarium pump]

Returning now to my hazy and sepia-toned European memories.

Another country I recall – with great fondness of course – is the nation of Franchia. Franchia, Land of Arches.

It is fascinating to see how other cultures live, shaking you out of your locked-in Night Valeian ways. And Franchia is a prime example.

To see a culture that doesn’t even have any people, a country with no population – just ancient stone arches, hundreds of square miles of arches, intertwining and leaning against each other. The wind hollows through the narrow alleyways as the lone traveler, camera in hand, explores the vast, empty cityscape.

One doesn’t need to be able to speak another language to be able to try your hand at communicating inside the borders of Franchia. Merely call out “Hello?” after long silent intervals, and hear your call echo back to you from the depths of the knotted, crumbling arches, unanswered.

The beauty, oh listeners, of intercultural exchange.

Of course, despite the fun times I had curled up with a blanket through the long nights of Franchia, looking up at the stars in a haze of cheap wine, no visit can last forever. Eventually, I became convinced that I was not alone in the labyrinth; that somewhere among the arches was a beast, stalking me. 

And I swear, listeners, I swear that in the moment of crossing, I felt a single claw graze against my back. I swear, I felt the endless wind of Franchia turn hot and wet – the breath of the beast inches away from my neck.

So visit Franchia – but, you know, watch out for the monster that I may or may not have only imagined.  

Now, traffic.

The Night Vale Department of Transportation has advised us that work crews are slithering on certain sections of Route 800. Commuters are advised to drive slowly in these marked areas, as construction-hatted workers will be roiling on the ground 

 over the place, a heaving mass of limbs and lolling, panting mouths.

Fines for traffic violations in these marked areas are double. All fines 

 of the marked areas are quadruple, as usual.

Also, the DoT has asked me to read the following advisory notice – using their 

 wording.  So:

I’m not quite sure what that means, but if 

 understood it, then avoid an annoying traffic ticket by obeying…whatever dictate was being relayed.

And remember, wear seat belts. They are a cool fashion statement, and easily obtained by cutting them out of your own car and crafting them into any number of accessories.

And now a word from our sponsors:  

Seven lights in the window.

Seven lights in the hall.

Seven lights, seven lights, all in all.

Six notes in the melody.

Six notes form a dirge.

Six notes to rid you of the urge.

Five ways of escaping.

Five ways all blocked off.

Five ways, each one broken and lost.

Four words in a whisper.

Four words in your ear.

Four words that fill you up with fear.

Three taps of a finger.

Three taps on a wall.

Three taps as you try to stall.

Two eyes wide and desperate.

Two eyes squinting scared.

Two eyes open, yes, but nothing there.

One light in the window.

One light in the hall.

One light, one light, all in all.  

Taco Bell. Live mas.  

To return once more to pleasant reminiscence, Europe is not just about looking at monuments and 

 to monuments and 

 monuments. It’s also about the people.

Big news in the science world! Scientists announce that they have discovered the world’s deadliest spider – a previously unknown species that is as hard to spot as its bite is hard to survive. Apparently the specimen was found when 

 dead body was examined.

They say you were a portrait of agony, your skin a myriad of pulsing, angry colors and…oh – you know what? I’m sorry. This report is from 

. 

And now, the weather!  

[“

” by 

]

Thinking back, ladies, looking back, gentlemen, thinking and looking back on my European tour, I feel…a heavy sadness descend upon me.

Of course, it 

 partly nostalgia – looking back at that younger me, bustling around Europe, having adventures and overcoming obstacles that, at the time, seemed so overwhelming – but now seem like just the building blocks of a harmless story.

But here is the truth of nostalgia. We don’t feel it for who we were, but who we 

. We feel it for all the possibilities that were open to us, but that we didn’t take.

Time is like wax, dripping from a candle flame. In the moment, it is molten and falling, with the capability to transform into any shape. Then the moment passes, and the wax hits the table top and solidifies into the shape it will always be. It becomes the past – a solid single record of what happened, still holding in its wild curves and contours the potential of every shape it could have held.

It is impossible – no matter how blessed you are by luck, or the government, or some remote, invisible deity gently steering your life with hands made of moonlight and wind – it is impossible 

 to feel a little sad, looking at that bit of wax, that bit of the past. It is impossible not to think of all the wild forms that wax now will never take.

The village, glimpsed from a train window – beautiful and impossible and impossibly beautiful on a mountaintop, then you wondered what it would be if you stepped off the moving train and walked up the trail to its quiet streets and lived there for the rest of your life. The beautiful face of that young man from Luftnarp, with his gaping mouth and ashy skin, last seen already half-turned away as you boarded the bus, already turning towards a future without you in it, where this thing between you that seemed so possible now already, and forever, never was.

All variety of lost opportunity spied from the windows of public transportation, really.

It can be overwhelming, this splattered, inert wax recording every turn not taken.  

“What’s the point?” you ask.

“Why bother?” you say.

“Oh, Cecil,” you cry. “

.”

But then you remember – 

 remember – that we are, even now, in another bit of molten wax. We are in a moment that is still falling, still volatile – and we will never be anywhere else. We will always be in that most dangerous, most exciting, most possible time of all: the now. Where we never can know what shape the next moment will take.

Stay tuned next for…well, let’s just find out together, shall we?

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 22 - The Whispering Forest


There is a thin semantic line separating 

 and 

, and that line is covered in jellyfish.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Ladies and gentlemen, several of you may have noticed the new forest that has formed just to the east of Night Vale. It’s hard to say how these dense, piney woods have cropped up in a vast desert waste-scape, nor how they have grown in only a couple of days, but these woods are encroaching quickly on our little town.

Botanists from Night Vale Community College said that this beautiful, lush woodland is called 

 – and that, while lovely, should not be approached.

Officials from the Night Vale Parks Department agreed with this sentiment in a prepared statement wherein they just wrote the word “no” on a single piece of paper, but with hundreds of ‘O’s and maybe two dozen 'N’s, so it reads kind of like:

NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!

Or maybe it’s more of an echo-y scream. It’s hard to say – they did not include stage directions in their press release.

What we do know is this: there is a Whispering Forest just outside of town, and it should 

 be approached under any circumstances.

The Night Vale School District announce that schools will be closed all of next week, because nothing really matters, and is anything even real? They cited the ever-widening night sky as the impetus for this decision.

“How can we place any importance on something so insignificant as math or spelling or history when the void has already swallowed our tiny existence? We are 

, crushed daily by the indifferent feet of the universe, and – it’s just no good anymore! We can’t carry on like this,” the School Board said, swigging on a bottle of table wine and bobbing their heads weakly.

The School Board president, an enormous Glow Cloud that drops animals from great heights and casts a looming fog of despair over all it covers, added, 

Some parents, of course, are very upset by the decision to close schools, saying that we can’t let the vast incomprehensibility of the unknowable universe stop us in our tracks. We have to keep pushing forward.

Treasurer of the Night Vale PTA Diane Creighton said, “School is a meaningful part of a child’s life, and to just shut it down because you’re scared of your own insignificance is ridiculous. See? I’m looking at the sky right now!” Creighton continued, “and I’m saying, 'You can’t hold me back, sky! I can do any–  I can–  I–’”

Creighton then stopped speaking, lowered her loosening fist to her side, and then sighed audibly.

She added, “Nothing is real, I don’t think. Whatever. Who cares?”

Then she stared back up at the sky, and a single tear zig-zagged down her right cheek as she mumbled something about trees having the right idea.

And now, a public service announcement:

The Night Vale Psychological Association, in conjunction with a Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency, has asked that all citizens start keeping dream journals.

Dream journals can be a spiritually satisfying exercise in understanding your unconscious mind, helping you to fully examine your being, and balance your emotions.

They also can be rife with useful data for government officials and corporate marketing executives.

Of course, dear listeners, many of you are saying, “Well, this sounds 

, Cecil, but how do you keep a dream journal?”

Good question!

I have kept one for years now, and I must say I agree with the NVPA on this. It seems hard, at first, because you have to get in the habit of writing first thing in the morning, and also because the City Council’s ban on all writing utensils is still in full effect. But once you learn how to create a makeshift 

 out of a cocktail straw, some cotton, and any number of colorful municipal food pastes, you’ll be good to go!

In an effort to educate Night Vale citizens about dream journaling the NVPA has created this helpful how-to:

Step One: Find a foreign dictionary or hymnal. It is strongly preferred that you choose something in Russian or Ukrainian, but German will work too.

Step Two: Carve out several pages, creating a secret compartment in the book.

Step Three: Write down your dream in great detail the moment you wake up.

Step Four (and this is the most important step of all): Eat the paper you wrote the dream on, and then place a bird skeleton in the book.

Finally, bury the book near a magnolia or willow tree, and repeat each day.

The sooner you start this process, listeners, the sooner you can start actualizing your existence, exploring your inner self, and the sooner the Sheriff’s Secret Police can track down and arrest those vile miscreants who keep dreaming about horses.

More on The Whispering Forest:

Larry Leroy, out on the edge of town, said that he went out to The Whispering Forest this morning, just to see what all the fuss was about, and said that as he neared the woods’ edge, he felt a terrible sense of fear, and began to tremble and sweat.

But then he heard a small, un-gendered voice whisper, “You look so nice today, Larry. I like what you have done with your beard. And just look at that belt! Is that new?”

And of course, Larry’s beard 

 looking very good, listeners. He finally grew out his old goatee and stopped dying it black. It’s now a full, even blanket of soft-looking peppery wisdom, comforting his wise noble face. The forest is totally right!

So Larry said he entered the woods, and all his angst just melted away. He felt young and carefree in a way he’d never felt, and the woods told him they loved him.

“We love you, Larry,” The Whispering Forest reportedly whispered. “You are 

, and you 

 good. Do you want to hang out more? Let’s hang out, and tell some jokes, and maybe play games! You are a good friend. Let us be friends.”

Larry said he wanted to stay, but that he remembered that he had cable TV, and didn’t want to miss anything just because there was some beautiful nature he’d never explored. So he went home to catch an Iron Chef America marathon.

So, listeners, it sounds like The Whispering Forest is actually pretty nice. I can’t imagine what all those academic types and bureaucratic pen-pushers were going on about. Larry made it sound like a really friendly place!

I’m going to send intern Richard out there, and see what else we can learn about this fascinating new addition to our landscape.

And now a look at the Community Calendar:

Monday is the opening of the new exhibit at the Children’s Science Museum. The exhibit is called “The Moon is a Lie!” It explores how the moon is a government-created myth to keep us all from knowing about the ancient alien machinery that controls the oceans. In the Hands-On Learning Room, children will be able to make their 

 moons out of styrofoam and aggressive propaganda – just like the Masons did!

Tuesday, Buddy Holly returns to Dark Owl Records. There will be no performance, or book signing, and no one will see him. He will just…hover over music lovers’ shoulders and disapprove of their misguided musical tastes. Incorrect shoppers will receive a bout of uncontrolled sobbing and a horrifying chill up their spine from the legendary rock 'n’ roller himself.

Thursday is Recycling Pickup Day. Paper goes in blue bags, plastic in clear, and any teeth you have lost because of last week’s public water mishap should be gently placed in a wooden box and set afire.

Friday, at the Night Vale Recreation Center, are cooking classes for beginners. Amateur chefs can learn about knife skills, the basics of baking, and a seminar about whether or not deer feel pain or are just sad.

Saturday afternoon is a secret parade. You will know where and when it is if and when you are chosen to see its secret floats and hear its secret songs.

Sunday is the day we decided last fall we would clean up around here. You promised! We need to clean up, OK? And that’s this Sunday. Don’t make other plans, you always do that! You are always 

!

And now, a word from our sponsor.

You cannot see. You grope around wildly as your footing is also unstable. 

A blinding flash, a moment of understanding. You are in an empty storeroom, tied to a chair. There are others, but they are hooded and limp.

You recall this living nightmare. You take comfort in its familiar pain.

You smell fermentation and can hear a dull, unending beeping. Someone shouts in a language you do not know. You love your family. You love them!

More on The Whispering Forest:

Intern Richard called to say the woods are stunning, and the moment he arrived, they were 

 welcoming.  

“Richard, you have lovely green eyes. I can’t believe I just noticed them! That shirt really brings out those piercing gems. You also have nice soft hands. Do you play guitar? Would you like to play guitar? Do you like music?” the Forest apparently whispered.

Richard reported to me that he wanted to stay in the Forest, but I told him that he still has intern tasks to do here at the radio station, like filing ad contracts and renaming the wingless insects, but he insisted on staying.

Richard told me that his feet started itching at first, then tingling – a very pleasant tingle. He then noticed gray-brown patches forming along his feet and legs and he couldn’t move, and Richard assured me that this was 

, but I have already sent for help.

Ladies and gentlemen, for your safety, 

 stay away from The Whispering Forest. Do not listen to its hollow compliments, its sappy flattery. Learn from Larry Leroy. Stay inside and watch television! There is no reason to go explore nature. 

So, as I try to find out what has happened to our station intern, let us go to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Well, listeners, there’s good news and bad news from The Whispering Forest.

The bad news is that intern Richard – as we know him – is lost to us forever. As are the dozens of first responders, concerned citizens, and curious nature lovers who all went to The Whispering Forest today.

To the family of Richard, let me say I am terribly sorry for your loss. He was an excellent intern, and he will be missed.

The good news is that none of those we lost today are technically 

. According to Simone Rigadeau, from the Earth Sciences building at Night Vale Community College, The Whispering Forest is a place where we can all plunge our feet and hands into the cool, soft soil, allowing our fingers and toes to grow and spiral into the earth, quickly and deeply intertwining with themselves, each other, snaking in and through a complex organic network to become 

.

In The Whispering Forest, everyone is one. 

They share each other now.  

I know Simone is only a transient who lives in an unused storage closet in the Earth Sciences building and not an 

 scientist, but I thought that was a beautiful story, and it brought some meaning to the otherwise meaningless life of an intern.

So…rest easy, Night Vale, knowing that we have lost no one today. They have gained each other. They share the soul of The Whispering Forest now, and we will have them, always.

Or…at least however long trees live, which I think is 

 long…I’m not really sure. I had a hamster as a child and it died in, like, two weeks, so meh! What do I know?

Stay tuned next for the sound of a rapidly beating heart.

As always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 23 - Eternal Scouts


We report only the real, the semi-real, and the verifiably unreal.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Here at the station, we have been receiving many calls and emails over the last several months asking us about Khoshekh – the cat found hovering in the men’s bathroom. Well, he is doing just fine, and thank you very much for your concern. In fact, he recently gave birth to an adorable litter of kittens. How does a 

 cat give birth? Well, how does a he cat 

 in an immobile spot in a radio station bathroom?

Some things just aren’t meant to be questioned. 

 things, actually.

We slipped a note under Station Management’s door, asking if we could keep all those adorable, floating kittens. Management responded with a great thrashing behind the closed door of their office, and a localized rain storm in the break room. We are still working with the station oracle to understand their message, and we will let you know soon what we do with the kittens.

Exciting news from the Night Vale chapter of the Boy Scouts. Two of their members – Franklin Wilson and Barton Donovan – have achieved all the necessary requirements to advance from the rank of Fear Scout to that final and most terrible of ranks: Eternal Scout. The ceremony will take place at an unspecified time today, in the Hole in the Vacant Lot Out Back of the Ralph’s, and anyone is invited to attend.

Those who wish to view the ceremony should wear loose-fitting clothing and tell everyone they know that they will be going on a 

 trip – oh, just 

, to clear their heads, you know? And that they don’t know when they will be back, but it won’t be for a long time, probably.

“I just really have to find myself, and I think the open road is the place to do it,” you should say. “Don’t look for me,” you should continue, taking hold of your loved one’s shoulder and maintaining an intense eye contact. 

The City Council voted this week to make death a meritocracy. “For all of human existence, death has been a communistic sort of event,” the Council said in a prepared statement, and that “we live in America, where it is not the government’s job to give death to every single citizen.”

The Council noted that from now on, death would be earned through hard work and productivity, not just as a handout for every resource-sucking freeloader on the street.

“If you want to die,” the Council said, “you will have to achieve death yourself. Not everyone gets to die, and that’s just how it will be.”

The vote won by a small margin, with the opposition split between keeping death universal and others pushing for banning death altogether.

Listen, Night Vale, I don’t know about you, but I am for this new merit-based system of death. If everyone gets to die, then no one will really value death. I used to be young, and idealistic, and think that death was a human right, that everyone 

 to die. But now, I realize that dying is 

. I’m working hard every day, trying to die, but you don’t hear 

 complaining, “Oh, government, where’s my free death?" No. When I die, I want to have 

 it.

I don’t mean to sound insensitive to those less fortunate, who don’t have the means to die without government help, which is why I support our local non-profit shelters, that will help ease our more ‘down-on-their-luck’ brothers and sisters toward the death they truly want, but just can’t afford.  

At her regular daily press conference today, Mayor Pamela Winchell extended a warm congratulations to Franklin and Barton for their Eternal Scout achievement.

"Fire is actually cold!” she shrieked. “It is the cold that burns you!”

She went on to produce several colorful balloons from her mouth, which she presented to strange, mute children in the audience – children whom none of the reporters remembered having been there just seconds before, and whom none of them recognized.

The children thanked the mayor by vibrating and dissolving.

The Scouts, meanwhile, have continued preparations for their ceremony. The Vacant Lot Out Back of the Ralph’s is now covered by a thick burlap tent, and the scout leaders were seen rolling several oil drums into the tent, drums that rattled as they moved. They also have put up streamers and a hand-painted banner over the tent entrance that reads “GREAT JOB, FRANKY AND BARTY!”

Great job indeed! Oh, this is so exciting! What a wonderful little town we have.

After a long battle with parents over the controversial soda machines in the recently-reopened Night Vale High School, the School Board has finally capitulated to pressure from the PTA. While the School Board – led by the ethereal and menacing Glow Cloud – refused to remove the machines because of the much-needed extra revenue, they concurred that so much corn syrup was simply not good for students’ health.

As a compromise, the School Board agreed to booby-trap the machines with swinging blades and an electrical maze to promote healthier drink choices and physical activity – which can help burn off all that sugar.

To make up for the potentially lowered income from fewer purchases, the School Board said they would raise soda prices, remove all water fountains and sinks in the building, and double up the salt in all cafeteria dishes.

The School Board concluded their announcement with the following:

Then they sprayed themselves, and reporters, with shaken-up two-liters of warm Sierra Mist.

Agents from the Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency are having their annual recruitment drive at the Abandoned Missile Silo Outside of Town next week. Those interested in joining whatever vague but important work it is that they do should submit resumes and head shots into one of several secret drop spots around town.

At the event itself, the candidates will be ruthlessly interrogated to determine how they found out where the secret drop spots are, what exactly they know about the agency, and who told them.

A representative for the Agency, speaking through a representative, who in turn spoke through a heavily-drugged proxy, said, “Oh, you know, it’ll be a lot of the standard job interview stuff. Asking you to name your greatest weakness so that we can use it to turn the screws on you even tighter, breaking you slowly through a series of hypnotic light pulses and disruptive sound patterns…stuff like that.”

Those who make it through this rigorous process will vanish forever from our lives – presumably to join the Vague, Yet Menacing, Agency in some capacity.

Those who 

 the process will also vanish.

Eventually, given enough time, we 

 will vanish – even the memories of us corroding and fading.

The recruitment drive includes a potluck lunch, and the Agency mentioned that they are usually overstocked on desserts and do not have enough main courses, so…keep that in mind.

If you want to witness the Eternal Scout ceremony, now is the time to run to the burlap tent over the Vacant Lot Out Back of the Ralph’s. Scout leaders indicate that the ceremony will be starting 

 now – although much of the ceremony is out of mere human control, and so they could not give a specific time.

Scout Master Earl Harlan said, “I’m 

 to be the first Scout troop to achieve this rank. I’m also 

 to be the first Scout troop to achieve this rank. The two emotions are mixing inside my body and it’s confusing. It’s confusing." He shivered.

"We could have had something, Cecil. Always remember that,” he concluded, clutching my arm before walking, head bowed, out of the studio.

Well, I think we’re all both proud and terrified most of the time, and that’s because we live in the best town in this county, in this state, and in this nation. That’s where the pride comes from! The terrified part is because life is terrifying. It just is.

And now a word from our sponsors:

Losing hope? Hard to see a way out? Hope: losing it? Lost? Lost in a cave? Lost in a cave that spirals around a single obsidian column, lit dimly by a source that does not seem to be either above or below? Hard to see? Scrabbling amongst the rocks for any landmark that might tell you from whence you came, to where you should go? Depressed? Suffering from depression? Suffering? Tripped on a rock and tumbling for a painful eternity down the evenly-lit featureless spiral? Losing hope?

Six Flags Desert Springs. Just off Exit 64, in Night Vale.

The Night Vale Medical Board announced today that they can’t help you. Not if you’re gonna keep screaming like that! They also asked that you clean up a bit before you come in. They don’t want to get sick!

“One of the major problems we face as doctors is the sheer amount of blood,” said Suzanne Thurgood, Publicity Director for the Medical Board. “We get so much blood all over our floors and jeans and copper magnet bracelets – it becomes nearly untenable.”

Thurgood added that the best thing to do if you are unable to stop bleeding is to first take a few breaths. Calm yourself. This should help you concentrate on 

 bleeding. Then, once you have finished bleeding, come to a doctor’s office.

“It’s not a matter of medical training,” Thurgood said. “It’s simply a matter of respecting other people.”

Thurgood then lit a cigarette and placed it expertly into the mouth of a low-flying hawk. As the bird flew away, a distant clock tower chimed the quarter hour, and a gentle rain began to fall.

This has been community health tips.

Reports are coming in that the Eternal Scout ceremony has started, and that herds of strange, mute children are streaming out of the burlap tent, filling all public and private spaces and standing silently, as though awaiting an order from some unknown higher source. The Sheriff’s Secret Police advise that the children are 

 and that they are 

 by them. I myself count five in this recording booth with me – exactly half of them boys, and half of them girls.

Who knows for what purpose these children have come to us, and to what end their actions will take us?

Who knows anything, actually, for sure?

Let’s go, surrounded and confused, vulnerable and trembling, to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

The ceremony is over, dear listeners. The children are gone.

It seems we have come through this crisis, as all crises before, safe and sound – the alarm only a false alarm.

The children that had surrounded us were not the threat we imagined. After their period of ominous silence, all they did was attack, savagely, dragging many citizens with them into the tent over the Vacant Lot Out Back of the Ralph’s.

How 

 we were to worry.

How much of our lives we spend building complex prophecies of fear, when the world itself is just the world we have always known and gotten along in.

Scout Master Harlan was one of the ones taken. I hope that he continues to be both proud and terrified, in whichever new reality he finds himself. I think often about the last moments with him, and the things that were said.

I think often about many things.

Other things, I think less about.

Franklin and Barton, now and forever holding the rank of Eternal Scout, have been preserved and placed in glass cases out front of the City Hall – a reminder, to all who pass, of the risks and rewards of bravery. Of loyalty. Of being a Scout. May 

 children who see them feel a swelling of pride.

Except that horde of mute children from some other world – t

Listeners, listeners out there, listeners out in the vacant night clinging to my voice as a simulacrum of companionship, remember: fear is consciousness plus life. Regret is an attempt to avoid what has already happened. Toast is bread, held under direct heat until crisp. The present tense of regret is indecision. The future tense of fear is either comedy or tragedy. And the past tense of toast is toasted.

Stay tuned now for more voices. More reassuring noise in this quiet world.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 24 - The Mayor


The sun has risen. You are awake. This symmetry is not without meaning.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners, I’m receiving word from the Sheriff’s Secret Police that Mayor Pamela Winchell has gone missing.

After this morning’s press conference, where she updated the media on standard mayoral news – stuff like her favorite kinds of rocks and a demonstration on hatchet sharpening – she walked to her office and then disappeared.

Trish Hidge, one of Winchell’s staffers, said, “Mayors can disappear. It’s not a big deal. She disappears all the time. She can fly and turn into a horse too! It’s perfectly within her rights, as mayor, to turn invisible. To disintegrate into a thin cloud of imperceptible existence.”

Hidge continued, “In fact, 

 can disappear if I want to. Because I work for the Mayor, I have all of the Mayor’s powers. I just don’t use them all the time…out of respect for the Mayor.”

When pressed by reporters to 

 her powers, Hidge reluctantly agreed, saying, “Uh, just this once,” and then standing in place, visibly straining, eyes bulging, cheeks reddening; there was a long, uncomfortable silence before Hidge said, “Well, I can’t do it with everyone watching. Turn around, okay?”

But then, before anyone could turn around, she vanished, leaving behind only a light white puff – like baby powder – a faint smell of olives, and an echoing voice that said, “No, wait, I–I got it! See?”

If anyone has any information on the Mayor’s whereabouts, please contact the Sheriff’s Secret Police, or just speak into any phone. They are all bugged, of course.

The Night Vale Community Theater is proud to announce the opening of their long-awaited production of 

. The location, and cast, are a secret. Curtain is promptly at 8:00, and those seeking autographs of cast members after the show should ask themselves why signatures are valuable and what that particular kind of transaction even means.

The Night Vale Daily Journal has indicated their intention to review the musical, as soon as they can find out where the performances are taking place. They are interrogating anyone who might provide them with the necessary information.

I am, myself, an aficionado of the theater – having once played the role of Pippin in a high school production. The musical being produced was actually South Pacific, but our director had a real flair for experimental theater, and felt the addition of characters from other famous plays would spice things up.

He also hid dangerous traps all throughout the set in order to keep us on our toes.

Oh, it was a wonderful couple of months, preparing for and performing in front of parents and friends, and those of us who were left at the end of it felt like we had truly been through something. Something we would never forget. Not even in the middle of the night, staring blankly into the darkness. Sweaty…pallid…trembling.

Students and seniors receive a 10% discount on all tickets to the hit musical.

Here’s a public service message to all the children in our audience:

Children, the night sky may seem like a scary thing sometimes. And it is. It’s a 

 scary thing.

Look at the stars, twinkling silently. They are so far away that none of us will ever get to even the closest one. They are dead-eyed sigils of our own failures against distance and mortality. And behind them, just the void. That nothingness that is everything, that everything that is nothing.

Even the blinking light of an airplane streaking across it does not seem to assuage the tiniest bit of its blackness – like throwing a single stray ember into the depths of a vast arctic ocean.

And what if the void is not as 

 as we thought? What could be coming towards us out of the distance? Insentient asteroid with a chance trajectory? Sentient beings with a malicious trajectory? What good could come of this? What good, children, could come of 

 of this?

, and sleep tight in your beds, and the inadequate shelters of blankets and parental love.

Sleep sound, children.

This has been our Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

More on our missing mayor:

Listeners, this might be worse than I could have imagined. I’m receiving word that Old Woman Josie and a gentleman that may or may not be an Angel friend of hers – depending on whether or not Angels are real, or if they 

 real, but aren’t really friends with Josie, or 

 real but suddenly 

 real because Josie willed them into existence. However it is, Josie and her exceptionally tall winged friend saw Mayor Winchell earlier this morning near the Moonlite All-Nite Diner, talking to a man in an offensively cartoon-ish Native American headdress.

Listeners, that is most certainly the Apache Tracker, and look – I don’t know what he is up to, but everywhere he goes, nothing good happens. For instance: last time he went to the Post Office, they had to spend 

 cleaning the blood off the walls and hire who knows what kind of specialists to stop the disembodied screaming coming from every darkened corner.

I mean, what kind of contractor even specializes in removing screams? Well, besides Shriek-Tronics, of course, but they moved their offices to several miles deep underground, and mostly just generate earthquakes for the government these days.

The point is that the Apache Tracker – despite his recent unexplained transformation into a real Native American – is 

 who he claims to be, and is 

 a trustworthy individual. I can only fear the worst for Mayor Winchell.

Old Woman Josie said she saw the two in a heated discussion that culminated in the Apache Tracker opening a leather briefcase, which in turn released a thick cloud of black flies – more than you would think could fit into a normal-sized fly briefcase.

The man with the insensitively feathered headdress then got into the backseat of a black sedan. Josie said she saw the driver clearly, and recognized him, but could no longer remember any details about his face.

Josie did not see where the mayor went, though, as her possible Angel friend was spending a lot of time explaining why an unassisted triple play in baseball is so rare. And she got distracted, because it seemed like a really important story, and she didn’t want to seem rude.

Listeners, we have contacted the Sheriff’s Secret Police. If you see this black sedan, the mayor, or have any other information (including light and citrus-y dessert recipes for our upcoming special on fresh summer cuisine), please contact us immediately.

And now, a word from our sponsor.

Listeners, are you lost? Don’t know where to turn? Might I recommend 

.

Do you need cash? Cast your eyes to 

.

Alone, drowning in back taxes and legal problems? Look at 

.

Night Vale’s newest spire – built in the night several weeks ago by unknown agents, or aliens, or animals, or just our collective imagination – the 

 offers itself to all those who are down on their luck, or destitute, or simply being crushed by the consequences of their own maleficence.

You might be asking, how much does it cost to receive help from 

? I can assure you it does not cost 

 money. It costs…other things. But if you’re concerned about what those costs are, then you are not in enough trouble for The Brown Stone 

. You just need a lawyer.

But if you are filled with glass shards of regret – The B

 Stone 

e – or screaming impotently at an indifferent 

, then no need to look! 

The 

rown 

one 

pire has a sl

. It 

This message was brought to you by Wendy’s.

During the commercial break, listeners, we received several calls from drivers saying that they saw the Apache Tracker in a black sedan, but that the mayor was 

 with him. He and his driver, who they couldn’t describe, were standing outside the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, still, unmoving, a swirl of dust and smoke spiraling slowly about them, a soft rumble below the sand, and the visceral tension of something about to 

.

So much bad news with those two men, Night Vale. Stay away from the Fun Complex, if you can. Not only these men, but there is also that secret civilization living under lane five that is planning a great war against us.

On the other hand, tonight is dollar beers and free jukebox tokens.

Listen, you do what you want. It’s your choice. But I’m just saying, that Apache Tracker or whatever he likes being called…I mean, if you knew someone who was always affecting a derogatory accent or told racist jokes, you wouldn’t be friends with them, right? So…who would hang around this guy? 

Still nothing on the mayor, dear listeners. The City Council has even become upset over this. They have been on the steps of City Hall, pacing and howling in unison like elephants in mourning.

Listeners, I know we don’t always agree with the mayor, and sometimes we just despise our elected officials because of the artifice of political parties, or because they don’t represent every one of our very specific interests, 

 because they are a different species, 

 have frightening supernatural powers and threaten violence against innocent citizens. I understand 

 of this. No politician is perfect, Night Vale! But Mayor Winchell has overseen some great moments in our town’s recent history.

She increased funding for the cancer ward at the Night Vale Hospital. And now, anyone who wants cancer can get cancer! Whether or not they have health care 

 a reason to live!

She regularly visits Night Vale Elementary School classes to promote youth literacy by reading children’s classics like Murakami’s The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, or any number of Cormac McCarthy’s novels.

She has been controversial, to be sure, but she is our leader, our parent. She cares very much about us, Night Vale, and when she jails or tortures someone without just cause or due process, it is because she loves this town so much.

Let us find our mayor, Night Vale!

But first, let us go to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Listeners: moments ago, Mayor Winchell was 

. She was holding an impromptu press conference. The press had to stay at least 500 feet away from her, as she was standing at the edge of the Dog Park. And no one, except city officials and Hooded Figures, are allowed that close.

Mayor Winchell apparently set up a podium and quietly delivered a prepared statement without a microphone and no one could hear what she had to say. Two Hooded Figures were standing behind her. But listeners, 

, listeners, do we ever have a scoop!

Former intern Dana, who I thought had been lost forever after she was swallowed up by the Dog Park two months ago, well…she texted me, just now, from whatever plane of existence she’s on. Dana is still alive, and in the Dog Park, and she heard the mayor’s speech.

And it turns out, Mayor Pamela Winchell is stepping down by year’s end!

Other reports indicated the mayor concluded by lighting the podium on fire, kicking it over, and climbing the 12-feet high, smooth obsidian walls quickly, gracefully, like a salamander, and then shouting several things that sounded like Russian vulgarities.

The Hooded Figures stayed outside the Dog Park and 

 reporters, who grew gray and hunched with melancholy. Many began wailing and clutching their eyes.

Listeners, first of all, it was so nice to hear from Dana. We miss her so. I tried emailing her back, but…my thumbs began to burn and blacken, and blood began trickling from my nose as I wrote, so I had to stop.

Hopefully, we will see Dana again. Time is weird. So is space. I hope ours match again someday.

As for the mayor, well, this is surprising! Did the Secret Police force her hand? Some Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency? Would this have anything to do with the Poetry Week incident, where actual Night Vale citizens, like Dana, got inside the forbidden Dog Park?

Or maybe it was simply the mayor’s choice.

It’s actually a good way to go out. The last six mayors were all executed quite publicly and creatively. 

All I know, Night Vale, is that we should all be so lucky to set our own futures. Dana did not. I don’t know that I will.

Each day the sun rises and sets. The moon pulls the tides. Our hearts beat. Our loved ones love us back. And we share our inhales and exhales with the great organism that is our tiny planet.

But, as you watch the sun rise again tomorrow morning, think to yourself: past performance is not a predictor of future results. And then force a smile, drink another cup of coffee, and try not to look down as you walk across the soil that will eventually fill your lifeless lungs and repurpose your corpse.

Each day that is, is a blessing, Night Vale.

And now, stay tuned next for the popular radio game show, 

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 25 - One Year Later


A friendly desert community where the sun is still hot, the moon still beautiful, and mysterious lights still pass overhead while we all pretend to sleep.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Word is in about a disturbance at the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex. There has been the sound of chanting and machinery from under the pin retrieval area of lane five, and Teddy Williams has changed all the bowlers’ names on the electronic score cards to “

”

This is causing some confusion, and has completely ruined Jeremy Godfried’s 50th birthday party – which had rented out a few lanes for the afternoon. Jeremy was last seen drinking a light beer out of a plastic cup, shaking his head sadly as he swished the liquid around, and looking out the window at the sky (mostly void, partially stars).

Teddy Williams was last seen howling, commanding his militia to surround the pin retrieval area and prepare for an attack.

And Carlos – 

 Carlos, 

 Carlos – was last seen approaching the entrance to the Underground City, saying he was going to 

, that 

, and that 

 was 

.

Teddy Williams was then last seen saying, “Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Say that to my face, big shot!”

But Carlos, my poor Carlos, was already gone.

I fear, Night Vale. I fear for what we know. I fear for what we 

 know. I fear for what we don’t yet know that we don’t know.

The Apache Tracker stood outside of the bowling alley, glowering at the entrance and shaking his head. I remind you that this is the white guy who likes to dress in a cartoonish approximation of a Native American, and claims to have “mystical powers.” He’s a real racist jerk, and no one likes him. And the fact that he recently disappeared and reappeared as an 

 Native American changes nothing. And neither does the fact that he can now only speak Russian. He is still the same embarrassment to our town he always was. Anyway, he’s glowering at the entrance, arms crossed, wearing one of his stupid plastic feather headdresses.

But…back to Carlos. 

Oh, just one short year ago.

I had arranged a small ceremony to mark this occasion, and invited Carlos to attend. However, it looks like he will be…delayed.

But I am not worried. I am 

 upset. I know that Carlos will be here for the ceremony. I have the trophy here in my hand. I am holding the trophy and I am not upset. Carlos 

 be here. He 

. I am 

 the 

!

In other news, a commercial airliner appeared today inside the home of surprised Night Vale citizen Becky Canterbury, who said she was about to get into the shower when it roared down her hallway and then disappeared, as suddenly as it had arrived. There is no conclusive evidence that this is the same airliner last seen in the Night Vale Elementary gym one year ago. But we have jumped to that conclusion and will defend it against all naysayers, violently and without mercy.

Our truths may or may not be true, but they are 

, and we stand by them – even as the experts and skeptics hold aloft clipboards and intone to us about “

” and “

.”

Becky added that she would like to take that shower now, and that she has no idea how we managed to arrive for an interview mere seconds after the incident occurred.

“My doors are locked!” she said. “My windows too! I’ve had my eyes shut for years! How did you get in here?”

The local chapter of the NRA has begun market-testing some possible new slogans. These include:

And,

To vote on the new slogan, simply fire a gun at the object or person that best represents your choice.

Parents, let’s talk about safety when taking your children to play out in the Scrublands and the Sand Wastes. All children in Night Vale are missing this week, so there’s no current safety issues.

Hope we find ‘em!

 I have just received word that Carlos returned from the entrance to the city, gesturing to everyone around and asking them to follow him. He lead them into the pin retrieval area, which is 

 an easy place for a crowd, so there was a lot of crouching and saying “Excuse me. Excuse me!”

This was the first time most of them had seen the city. It seemed so distant below them, its strange spires small and 

 away. The windows in the buildings, alight with the fire of hostile life, were 

 from where they stood. They could hear the footsteps of the approaching army, the chanting!

Many of them quaked with 

, but not Carlos. My brave Carlos stepped out into the pit, climbing down the slope. At first, onlookers were horrified at his lunatic descent. Then, they were confused…as he got to the city much faster than they expected. And then, there was 

, as their eyes told them a story they could not understand, let alone believe. 

“Behold,” said Carlos, standing in the center of the Underground City, “this is 

 an enormous city miles below the earth. It is a very 

 city about 

 below the earth, populated by tiny people, who have had to spend a year slowly climbing the 

 to our world!" 

Well…if Carlos says it, I will happily repeat it. We have nothing to fear, and never did!

The City Council would like to remind you about the tiered heavens and the hierarchy of Angels. The reminder is that you still should not know anything about this. The structure of Heaven and the Angelic organizational chart are still privileged information.

Also, Angels aren’t real.

“I really get tired of having to say this!” a City Council representative said to a group of disgruntled Angels. “Angels aren’t real They just 

”

The Angels became unruly, and were dispersed by a thunderclap from Heaven.

Oh… A truly fearful thing has happened, listeners.

Carlos, standing triumphantly in the toy-scaled city, was attacked by tiny people using projectiles and explosives. He fell back to the side of the small hole in the pin retrieval area of lane five, blood welled through his shirt, and here I am, stuck in my booth, 

, only able to narrate and not to help. He staggered, fell to his knees – so much blood! He collapsed completely.

, that saw Carlos die. Curse me. Curse it all!

Let us take a moment to–

Let us…take this moment–

Ladies and gentlemen, let us mourn the pass–

Can’t. 

I am still holding this trophy!  I–

We go now to this puh– …pre-recorded public service announcement.

Scientists, and science in general, would like to remind you that some things exist and some things do not. Usually you can apply the simple test of 

. If it 

 there, it exists! If not, it probably doesn’t – but it might just be currently existing somewhere else!

Existence is tricky, these scientists say. Research shows this.

For instance, there is that house in the housing development of Desert Creek out back of the elementary school – the House that Doesn’t Exist. It 

 like it exists, like it’s just 

 when you look at it, and it’s between two other identical houses, so it would make more sense for it to be there than not. But it does not exist. They have proved this with science.

The scientists still haven’t gotten up the nerve to ring the doorbell and find out what happens. Do you want to do it? They’ll pay you $5 if you do! “Just ring it once, OK? We’ll be watching from back here. You’ll 

 be fine.”

Ladies, gentlemen, how 

 Carlos is not dead at all! It seems that the Apache Tracker ran in, crouching awkwardly through the pin retrieval area and shouting “Наконец, мое время пришло!” 

He leapt into the pit, trailing his offensive feather headdress, and heaved Carlos up in a mighty bear hug, carrying him out of the pit while being attacked viciously by the miniature citizens of the miniature city.

Even Jeremy, upset still about his ruined birthday party, couldn’t help but cheer as the formerly false, now real, Native American laid Carlos safely on the linoleum floor.

Teddy Williams, who of course is also a licensed doctor – as all bowling alley owners are required to be – checked his wounds and indicated through a series of rhythmic hoots that Carlos will be, in fact, OK!

He’s OK!

Never before in my career as a broadcaster have I gone through such a roller coaster of emotion and fear! To think, that I had lost that most precious thing to me, the presence of Carlos in my life, and then to have it brought back, so that I could appreciate it all the more.

Oh, Carlos! 

Oh no! I have just been handed a note.

Oh. 

Ladies and gentlemen, in his valiant rescue of our beloved Carlos, the Apache Tracker was mortally wounded. He is bleeding profusely and it is getting all over his fake feather headdress, and he says that even his ancient Indian magics will not help him – which of course they won’t, because they’re not real.

Listeners, how could I have been so wrong about this man? A racist embarrassment to our town? Maybe. A real jerk? Yes. But he also was a man with Night Vale’s best interests at heart, who worked closely with the Angels and the mysterious Man in the Tan Jacket to protect us from the miniature city under the bowling alley. And he, at the cost of his own life, saved Carlos.

Carlos breathes and soon the Apache Tracker will not.

Tell me nothing else, and still I will tell you: here is a 

 man. Here is a good man dying. Here it is, the end of a good man’s life. The Apache Tracker spoke, not in a hoarse whisper, but with a clear, ringing voice, addressing the sky hidden behind the styrofoam panels of the ceiling:

“Ладно, ладно. Я знал, это случится. Ты можешь взять мою машину.” 

He said this, and then he died. The Apache Tracker is dead, Teddy Williams confirmed. Jeremy is slumped into a folding chair, kicking his feet and saying, “This is the 

 birthday party anyone has ever had.”

Goodnight, brave Tracker. Goodnight. I thought you were one thing and you were another. It is likely I will learn nothing from this.

Oh! Message on my phone…Carlos wants to see me. He says to meet him at the Arby’s parking lot. Um… 

And as I go, let us all go. Go now, to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

I arrived at the parking lot to find Carlos perched on the trunk of his car in flannel and jeans, his perfect hair mussed, his perfect teeth hidden.

“What is it?” I said. “Wha– what danger are we in? What mystery needs to be explored?”

He shook his head. “Nothing,” he said. “After everything that happened…I just wanted to see you.”

My heart leapt. My heart 

! My heart metaphorically performed a number of aerial activities and literally it began to beat hard.

“Oh?” I said, my voice more tremble than word.

Carlos looked at the setting sun. “I used to think it was setting at the wrong time,” he said, “but then I realized that time doesn’t work in Night Vale, and that none of the clocks are real. Sometimes things seem so strange, or malevolent, and then you find that, underneath, it was something else altogether. Something pure, and innocent.”

“I know what you mean,” I replied.

Somewhere, the tiny people of the city below have arrived in Night Vale, and are beginning their war against us – having already shown themselves capable of murder.

Somewhere, a Man in a Tan Jacket is whispering into the ears of our mayor, and we do not know what agenda they pursue.

Somewhere, the body of the Apache Tracker lies cold and still, never to speak of ancient Indian magics again.

This all happens 

.

But 

, Carlos and I sat on the trunk of that car – his car – looking together at the lights up in the sky above the Arby’s…they were beautiful in the hushed twilight, shimmering in a night sky already coming alive with bits of the universe.

One year later. One year since he arrived. He put his hand on my knee and said nothing. And I knew what he meant. I felt the same. I leaned my head on his shoulder.

We understand the lights. We understand the lights above the Arby’s. We understand 

.

But the sky behind those lights – mostly void, partially stars? That sky reminds us we 

 understand even more.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 26 - Faceless Old Woman ( R )


 This episode was a re-release of 

, Faceless Old Woman. There were three differences from the original:

Everything else was exactly as presented in 

.

Episode 26 - Faceless Old Woman


Trumpets playing soft jazz from out of the dark desert distance. They come tomorrow. It is too late for us.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Did you know there’s a Faceless Old Woman who secretly lives in your home? It’s true! She’s there now. She’s always there, just out of your sight. Always just out of your sight.

Because you cannot see her, you were probably completely unaware that this woman likes to sift through photos of you and your loved ones. She softly touches each face, as if wishing it were her own. Or perhaps 

 it as her own. Or perhaps simply cursing that person. It’s hard to say. You’ve never seen her doing this.

The Faceless Old Woman who secretly lives in your home does 

 of things.

Ever wonder why your web browser’s history is filled with Bing searches for – quote – “pictures of dead wolves,” or – quote – “the melting point of birds?" Or why sometimes your shower drain gets clogged with organ meats? Or why sometimes you hear crying from behind the walls? Or scratching at the front door? Or you awaken to find long silver hairs on the pillow next to you?

Or maybe you’ve never noticed 

 of those things. You’ve lived your life to this point completely oblivious to this Old Woman Who Has No Face. And truth be told, I think she’s probably harmless. But maybe you shouldn’t sleep in your home anymore…just in case.

Ladies and gentlemen, Dana has continued to send me texts from beyond the tall black fences of the Dog Park. Even though the Dog Park is forbidden to citizens and their dogs, Dana managed to get in, and is now trapped there for…who knows how long?

First off, she says she’s OK. She says she has met some nice people and she’s never bored.

She met the Man in the Tan Jacket, who has been haunting this city for the past few months. In fact, Dana says the Man in the Tan Jacket is quite nice, and they’ve really struck up quite a friendship. She’s still trying to figure out what the man’s involvement is with the Hooded Figures, and the recently deceased Apache Tracker, and the tiny underground civilization of war-mongers who live below lane five of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex. He has seemed to pop up in relation to a lot of strange events.

She’s also trying to figure out what he looks like. Every time she steps away from that guy, she can’t remember a thing about him – just that he’s wearing a tan jacket and carrying a deerskin briefcase.

Oh – and that briefcase, Dana says, is kind of weird because it’s full of flies. And that’s kind of creepy, at first, until you realize that he’s a fly salesman, and that they’re all trained. They can retrieve mail, and speak German, and play dead, and all kinds of cute things.

She says he’s a pretty cool guy, if you get to know him.

Oh, and I almost forgot – Dana wonders if any listeners with a good arm can get kind of close to the Dog Park and throw some beans or chips or beef jerky or something over the tall fence? She’s very hungry. In fact, it took me a while to get through her typos, listeners. She must be shaking 

 badly.

And now, a public service announcement from the greater Night Vale medical community.

Are you feeling run down? Even after eight hours of sleep? Are you having trouble breathing between the hours of 2:00 and 4:00? Are you gaining several extra pounds of weight, only to lose those pounds suddenly and then gain them back, all in five to six hour stretches of time?

Are you craving soil, like, all the time? Rich, dark soil that you just want cooling your tongue, filling your throat, your sinuses, your lungs, your belly? Are you digging up the earth in the early morning, screaming at the half-formed sun as if it would cordially leave, returning you to the darkness you so richly deserve and psychologically demand?

If you answered yes to all of those questions, then you’re fine! The program is working. All tests have been successful, and Phase Four is imminent.

This has been Community Health Tips.

More on the Faceless Old Woman who secretly lives in your home. She has issued a statement to the media just now. Here is that statement:

So, that’s the Old Woman’s special announcement. I have no idea how we received that recording, who recorded it, or how an Old Woman with no face – and by extension, no mouth – could speak so clearly. But it was very informative. Maybe you should try paying more attention when you’re at home.

Or better yet, destroy all of your mirrors. As my mother used to tell me, "Someone’s going to kill you one day, Cecil, and it will involve a mirror. Mark my words, child!” And then she would stare absently through my eyes until I giggled.

Ah, I miss her so much.

Listeners, a lot of you have written in asking for photos of Khoshekh, the station cat, and to learn what became of his litter of kittens. Station Management did not let us keep the kittens, but they have been given away to good homes. Unfortunately, like Khoshekh, the cats are also stuck – floating in fixed points in space – so their owners will have to visit them right where they were born, right here in the station bathroom. Khoshekh hovers about four feet in the air, but some of those little ones are as high as nine.

It’s sad that we cannot keep the kittens for ourselves. But it will be nice to see them every time we take a restroom break at work. I wish I had some photos to share with you, but alas, radio is not a visual medium. Also, the last three staff members that took photos not only found that Khoshekh does not show up in pictures, but those staff members also died pretty agonizing deaths the week following. So we’re refraining from even describing what he looks like.

Oh – but I did make a quick recording of the meow Khoshekh makes when it’s time to eat.

[Khoshekh meows]

Like I said, I’m not a cat person, but Khoshekh has found a truly special place in my heart.

I’m getting word that authorities are surrounding your home. These authorities are secret agents from a Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency. You are probably looking out of your window now to see these agents, but they are highly covert. You cannot see them, even if you look hard. These specially-trained men and women can expertly disguise themselves as trees, and doors, and birds, and feral cats, and wind gusts. A group of them have even disguised themselves as one item of furniture in your home. I am not at liberty to even 

 which one, but you’re probably looking at it right now.

The Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency seems upset that the Faceless Old Woman who secretly lives in your home has been alerting you – and the media – to her presence. I mean, we all knew she was there. Who 

 about the Faceless Old Woman that hides in all of our homes? It’s not dissimilar to knowing that Santa Claus isn’t actually real. Everyone – except young children, of course – knows Santa is this huge population of heavily-sedated and costumed bears that the CIA lets loose across the country every Christmas Eve.

And, like the Santa Claus myth, it’s important we keep up the image that we all don’t know the truth. Like, “let’s all pretend Santa is a gift-giving old man and not a drugged-up government bear.” And, in the same vein, “there’s no Faceless Old Woman hiding in your home.”

Anyway…the agents are encroaching on your home now, and preparing to use deadly force. I’d like to tell you that you need to run, to get out of there now, to save yourself, but it is too late. Every entrance and exit is barricaded. I am afraid you are doomed.

Unfortunately, the Faceless Old Woman must 

. She must know secrets, some very important bits that the Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency holds dear, and those secrets are probably about you. Perhaps she is planning to reveal your purpose here. Perhaps you too are connected, albeit unwittingly, to the Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency, and this information cannot – 

 – be shared. You are a walking top secret document. And now, on the verge of this revelation, you must be 

.

On the plus side, you had a 

. And that is more than most of us can say.

You will be missed.

So, for your last moments – though surely not 

 – I give you the weather.

[“

” by 

]

The Faceless Old Woman secretly living in your home wants to apologize to you. She has issued another statement:

She didn’t leave a name or a website URL, and I’m not sure how she can read websites or books at all without a face – and by extension, eyes. We’ve also received word that the covert agents from the Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency have retreated, and have obviously not used deadly force, as you are still alive – regardless of how dead you feel inside.

They did, however, release several thousand spiders into your home. Fortunately for you, like the Faceless Old Woman, you will be unable to see these spiders unless you look closely. They are highly trained spiders, moving just outside of your periphery, but – and this is also just like the Faceless Old Woman – from time to time, you will feel them brushing against your soft cheeks and lips as you sleep. So keep your eyes open.

Listeners, let us 

 keep our eyes open. It’s not always easy knowing who and what wants to be seen, but when you look around you, pay attention to those fuzzy and dark corners. Peer deeper into those predictable patterns, like walls and moons. Furrow that brow and seek visual truth, Night Vale.

If you could only see what you’re 

 seeing! If you could only take in all the complex layers of horrors that lie just beyond your range of sight. If you could only see the world as it really is. It is 

, and on fire…and 

.

Listeners, stay tuned next for our newest hit program, Open-Mouthed Chewing! Tonight’s topic: Glass Shards – How to make the most out of a bad situation.

Until next time, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 27 - First Date


Mountains. Endless mountains! Peak after barren peak. And what lies, restless, in the shadowed valleys? I cannot say. I cannot say!

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello.

Let’s start there. Let’s start with a greeting. A simple “hello.”

And then let’s move right into the most exciting news, the most wonderful news!

As you may remember, a few weeks ago, along with the beginning of a vicious war against us by 

 people, from a 

 underground city, Carlos – the beautiful scientist – finally returned my expressions of affection. And not in that dry science way he always used to use, saying things like, “I’m not calling for personal reasons, I need to tell your radio audience about a strange hole that might appear in their wall.”

Oh yeah, I forgot – there’s a strange hole that might appear in your wall. He said it was important to tell you…especially after what happened in the Smithwick house. I forgot. That was a while back, so I guess it doesn’t matter much now.

But yesterday, when he called me, he started his call by saying, “I am calling for personal reasons. Also, my calculations show a strange source of energy approaching the town, but not emanating the kind of light that such a source should.”

Isn’t that so sweet? And well…one thing led to another, and last night we went out on our first date. 

The Sheriff’s Secret Police, in association with a Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency, announced that those trucks full of crates far out in the desert are nothing, and that we shouldn’t worry about them. The trucks, which no one in town knew about until this announcement, are filled with crates that are warm to the touch. Some of them tick, others do not.

“Don’t even worry a 

 about them,” say the Secret Police. “Forget we said anything. No, really, remembering we said anything is now against the law.”

We reached out to Lieutenant Regis, of Unit 7 of the local National Guard Station and KFC combo store, for a comment, and he said he’s been “ruminating on a lot of things. Just a lot of stuff’s been running through my mind. That’s an interesting phrase. ‘Running through the mind.’ Where are those thoughts going? Are they trying to leave? And if so, where?”

When pressed to comment specifically about the trucks full of crates out in the desert, he just repeated everything he had said, with the exact same inflections and gestures.

Well…I’m sure these crates won’t come up again, and pose no future danger to any of us. No more on this story, ever, I’m sure.

The Night Vale Public Library will be expanding into a second branch: the Night Vale 

 Library. This library will be right next door to the current location and will be available only to one person: local billionaire Marcus Vanston. It will contain thousands of books on any given subject, an interactive children’s area shaped like a full-sized pirate ship, and a biography section featuring not just biographies of Helen Hunt, but also biographies of Sean Penn.

Marcus continued, “Maybe I will pick up a book and open it as though I were 

 to read it, but then reveal to those watching that I am holding it upside-down before laughing and throwing the book away! I’m not sure. I haven’t planned out every moment. I will 

 be nude, though.”

The Public Library Board of Directors issued a statement via loudspeaker from their helicopter that hovers continuously over our city, indicating that they feel this expansion will serve the community, by showing how rich Marcus is, and what a great guy that 

 makes him. And have you seen how many cars that guy owns? 

Reports also indicate that the Night Vale Private Library will be entirely free of librarians – a fact that will be of little comfort to the many Public Library-goers who are injured or killed in librarian maulings every year. Remember, if confronted by a librarian while looking for a book to check out, do not attempt to escape by climbing a tree. 

 And the precious moments it will take you to look around and realize this will allow the librarian to strike. 

All right! News done! So, now let’s talk about the date.

Carlos and I met up in Old Town. I was wearing my best tunic and furry pants. And he had on a laid-back 

 lab coat. We were both beautiful in the late afternoon sunlight, each other’s dreams met in a real world moment.

Our destination was none other than Gino’s Italian Dining Experience And Grill And Bar – the fanciest restaurant in town. It was a perfect day…other than the strange blot of darkness buzzing on the edge of town. But that was probably 

 under construction. We went arm in arm into Gino’s and were immediately seated, with no memory of who greeted us at the door or how we got to our table – situated in a classy, understated, and absolutely doorless room. The full Gino’s experience.

Their menu is somewhat limited after the ban on wheat and wheat by-products, so we each ordered a single portobello mushroom, served rare and bloody (as is the Gino’s way).

From the window, we had a great view of the sunset, and of the buzzing shadow thing, which seemed to have moved closer.

“I’ve been thinking,” Carlos said.

“Uh-huh?” I said.

“Yeah, that’s what I’ve been doing lately,” he said. “Thinking. It’s part of being a scientist. What have you been up to?”

And so we talked. Just us and our bleeding mushrooms, and the buzzing shadow presence, and a blooming haze of romance in the air.

Wai– hold on.

Station management is apparently getting agitated, uh, flailing around their office and howling, so I need to do some more news real quick.

Violent incidents increased across the entire Night Vale area over the last several weeks as the people of the miniature city under lane five of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex continued to wage their war against us with tiny bodies and tinier weapons. Citizens are urged to protect themselves against this army in their midst by 

 everywhere they go, and keeping a vigilant watch towards the ground rather than keeping our eyes closed as we usually do.

In related news, the City Council has erected a monument to the fallen Apache Tracker – that hero who died for the welfare of us all. The monument will be dedicated in a secret silent ceremony, attended by no one, and the monument itself will be buried in the desert where no one will find it – because he was also a racist embarrassment and we don’t want our town associated with that kind of thing.

And now, the Community Calendar.

Monday will be the Annual Bluegrass Festival, held in the burned-out shell that used to be Louie Blasco’s music shop, before he lit it on fire and skipped town with the insurance money. Participants can huddle among the ashen remains, casting haunting looks at each other and sharing some of their favorite bluegrass dirges. Legend has it that if you look into a mirror and say 

 three times, Louie himself will appear and teach the crowd some simple, easy bluegrass licks – before taking your soul back with him into the 

Tuesday is a holiday. Make sure you have adequate emergency supplies and plenty of clear plastic sheeting. We’re not sure which holiday it is, so have all possible antidotes on hand.

Wednesday, the staff of Dark Owl Records are getting a band together. 

 they’ll say, grabbing knives and hammers. 

 they’ll continue, over the screams. 

Thursday through Sunday will be a blur of routine and practicalities – a series of moments and actions that we will fail to notice as we experience them, and will forget the moment they are gone.

This has been the Community Calendar.  

All right! Boring stuff done. Back to the date!

We wrapped up dinner at Gino’s with a slice of their special invisible, non-corporeal, and tasteless carrot cake, which was as light as air and resembled air in 

 qualities as well.

Our waiter, formerly a heavyset man with a large mustache, was now a buzzing shadow man defined only by the absence of light in the vague shape of a torso and limbs. Presumably, our former waiter was on break. We asked for the check, and then made our escape from the doorless room by breaking the window, using the brick our waiter had provided for that purpose.

Carlos and I – oh, the magic of that phrase, oh, the ecstasy that a simple conjunction can imply – took a stroll through Mission Grove Park. It was just us, and the trees, and the crowd of our fellow citizens who were all doing the usual recreational activity of pointing at the sky and shouting in terror. I asked Carlos if he wanted to join in for a round, but he said he had already been scared of all that the empty sky implies yesterday, and so was pretty tired.

“If you want,” he said, “we could do some tests on the trees. I’ve been meaning to do some scientific tests on the trees. They 

 normal, but given all that I’ve observed in this town, it is a significant chance that they are not.”

Well, 

 I could not pass up the opportunity to perform 

 side by side with my Carlos! And so we approached the nearest tree; an old sagging thing, and began to perform tests – the nature and purpose of which I am not remotely qualified to describe.

Meanwhile, our fellow park goers had ceased screaming and had taken up being strange, buzzing shadow beings. All of them were standing exactly where they had been, but were now defined only by the absence of light in the vague shape of a torso and limbs.

I stroked Carlos’ cheek. I don’t know if he noticed. He said the tests were inconclusive, and also was perfect in face and form.

And now, a word from our sponsors.

Looking for a home security solution? Good luck with that! Want to feel safe when driving your car? Get in line! Fearful when walking alone at night? 

When life seems dangerous and unmanageable, just remember that it 

, and that you can’t survive forever.

Denny’s Restaurants – why not?

And now a station editorial.

Listeners, a lot has been made about the topic of beauty. And I don’t think we, in the media, always do our best to promote healthy self images. Movies and magazines and TV shows and advertisers love to use photo and video editing to make people seem skinnier, fairer, and more appealing to a false ideal of human beauty, and I think this takes a strong hold of us – especially children.

But remember: you are beautiful only when you do beautiful things. Full lips aren’t as beautiful as a full laugh. Skinny hips aren’t as attractive as a quick wit. Think about treating others right, and those others will flock to you in screaming droves.

Just peel back those artificial layers, Night Vale! Unzip that name brand coat, those skinny jeans, wipe off that makeup and gently (but very 

) peel off that skin that’s covering up the true you. Look at those exposed eyes, dangling unprotected from their gaping sockets. Look at the blood and sinew slowly uncoiling from quivering bones. Admire that slippery viscera trying to squeeze under those dynamic ribs of yours.

You are organic to be sure, listener! Be proud of who you are!

Speaking of pride, speaking of beauty, more from my date soon.

But first, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Let’s get right back into it, shall we?

After the park, I drove him back to his lab next to Big Rico’s Pizza. The drive was…difficult, because at this point it seemed that everyone in town but the two of us had hopped onto the ’

’ train, and were loping around town as malevolent holes in our reality, emanating an energy that made the hairs on your arm stand and your bowels vibrate.

Or maybe that was just the chemistry with Carlos I was feeling.

A woman ran at our car, screaming, a few of the shadow people chasing her, but before I could even touch the brake, she must have changed her mind because she had already turned into a shadow person herself. It’s like, ugh, 

 from the shadow people or 

 one. 

We arrived outside of Big Rico’s, and there was that awkward moment at the end of every date, where you pause outside of the person’s door, and it’s like, ’

' Also, I was wondering if he was going to invite me into his lab to look at all those beakers and humming electrical equipment.

“Well,” he said, pointing to his lab, “this is me.”

“Uh-huh,” I said.

“I should probably do something about this ’

’ thing,” he said. “A few experiments, to see if I can save the town.”

“Oh?” I said. “Do you need any help with that?”

“No,” he said. “A scientist is self-reliant. It’s the first thing a scientist is.”

“Oh,” I said again, but softer, sadder – which is when he leaned forward and 

 me. Just once. Just…gently. Just before slipping out of the car and into the lab.

I’ll tell you, listeners, I was almost swallowed by a cloud of malevolent shadow energy on the drive home and I hardly even noticed. I was 

 happy!

I guess Carlos managed to find a way to defeat the shadow energy, as everything seems normal today. A couple neighborhoods 

 emptied out, sure, with books and food and televisions left where they had been at the time of the sudden vanishing, a tableau of the life that never again will be.

But it wouldn’t really be a weekend without that happening 

, right?

Night Vale, my sweet and only Night Vale, may you find love. May you find it 

 it’s been hidden. May you find who has been hiding it and 

 As the old song goes, love is all you need to destroy your enemies. Finer words were never chanted.

Stay tuned next for Efficiency Hour with our own productivity expert: a reversed voice, underscored by hypnotic pulses.

And, with all the love in my loving heart, and with a loving voice in a loving and terrifying world, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 28 - Summer Reading Program


Does it even matter how many living things you touch today, or where they all are now?

Welcome to Night Vale. 

The Summer Reading Program for children and teens has begun at the Night Vale Public Library.

This comes as an alarming surprise, given that the program was abolished by the City Council 30 years ago. Though parents and teenagers have asked on several occasions to reinstate the program, the City Council has maintained its position, citing lack of taxpayer funds, the extreme danger posed by books, the peril of exposing children to librarians, and of course, the incident that precipitated the ban – which the town’s older residents will refer to only as “The Time of Knives.”

Nevertheless, in a show of civic dedication (or mindless bloodlust, and they really are 

 similar), Night Vale’s librarians have banded together in defiance of authority to reinstate Summer Reading.

Colorful posters with appealing statements like “

,” and “

,” and “

” have appeared overnight around the library entrance and in local shops and businesses – all sporting the clever tagline, “

”

The Sheriff’s Secret Police have responded by interrogating the proprietors of businesses where the posters have appeared, and by removing and confiscating the posters themselves.

Although…to be honest, listeners, the graphic design work is 

 cute. I mean, have you seen them? The little flesh-eating germ, with his sun hat and library book, using a screaming semi-skeletal human victim as a beach chair? Ugh! Adorable!

After fierce debate today, the City Council has officially declared 

 illegal – a crime that has, until this point, been handled using informal vigilante squads. The head of one such squad, Vincent LeFarge of Grab ‘Em And Sack ‘Em, argued that Night Vale has gotten along just fine for years, without the government “meddling in murder investigation or punishment.”

“Do we sometimes catch the wrong guy?” said Vincent. “Sure, most of the time. We’re not even sure we’ve 

 caught a guilty one. Usually, we just grab the first person we see. One time, we tried to arrest the dead body…but it got away.”

Proponents of the bill argued that most things in Night Vale are already illegal anyway, so citizens would hardly even notice the change. The law goes into effect in two weeks, and citizens are advised to get any necessary murders done before then – although there will be a three-day grace period after the deadline, for those who are forgetful, or whose victims are hard to catch.

Some summer tips to beat the heat:

First off, have you tried to 

 with the heat? Humans, temperatures, Angels, and chairs are all 

 real and sentient – which is to say that we’re all 

, nor are any of us actually sentient. But give reason a shot. It has never, not once in history worked, but it might just work this time!

If the heat won’t listen to reason, try 

 that it’s hot.

“Doesn’t seem hot today,” you might say to your profusely sweating neighbor. “A little chilly even,” you could continue, slipping on a sweater and making an exaggerated “

” noise as the glaring sun plants the idea of cancer in your skin.

And, if denial does not work, then your best bet – as with all problems in life – is exhausted resignation.

This has been summer tips to beat the heat.

And now a public service announcement:

Here is a brief list of everything that is helpful:

Anything not specifically named in this list should be considered not-helpful and potentially dangerous. It’s not just good sense, it’s the law!

An update on the Summer Reading situation:

14 young people between the ages of 5 and 17 have already been reported missing, and are feared to be in the Public Library, and possibly 

. Attempts by the Sheriff’s Secret Police to enter the library, rescue the missing children, and put an end to all Summer Reading activities have failed, as all doors and windows have mysteriously disappeared from the library exterior – just like it was before the renovations.

Our tax dollars paid for those doors and windows, and we shouldn’t be expected to stand for library administrators just deciding to disappear them on a whim – even for a valid reason, like jealously guarding their possession of our stolen children, without at least putting the issue to a popular vote.

Anyway…in light of this development, the City Council has declared a Level Orange Fear Alert. They advise that all Night Vale citizens avoid the Public Library, and provide the Council with any information they may have on the whereabouts of the missing children, on librarians’ secret weaknesses, or on good books they’ve read lately.

Any citizens who admit to having read good books, the Council added in an impromptu press conference, televised from a book-proof bunker, will be immediately scheduled for re-education, and subsequent 

education.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police, meanwhile, have instituted a curfew for the entire town, effective immediately. After 7 p.m., all minors should be at home and under adult supervision, and absolutely no reading, researching, online information seeking, educational games, documentary television, or having a lifelong love of learning will be permitted. As their catchy new slogan puts it, “Once it gets dark, forget everything you ever knew and be silent. Words belong to our enemies, and our enemies are words. So be as mute and pure as a bone bleached clean by our desert sun. 

”

The Police have also stated that any Night Vale citizen encountering a librarian, an entity suspected of 

 a librarian, or any excessively organized and helpful individual with a working comprehension of information systems is encouraged to shoot on sight.

They also added this goes for teachers as well, since “what the hell, as long as we’re at it!”

We’ll have further updates on this story as it develops.

And now a word from our sponsors:

Congratulations! You are eligible for a 

 This 

 comes with everything you need, including a free arrest, free charges, free arraignment, and free conviction, guaranteed! Shipping and handling not included. Defense lawyer also not included. We have you surrounded. The more you struggle, the worse it will be for you. Put that down. Put it down! Put that down.

This message brought to you whether you like it or not.

The Freemasons have announced some changes to their hierarchy. These changes are the following:

Whereas before the Freemasons were under the authority of the Stonemasons Worldwide, they will now be an independent subsidiary of the Hallowed Mason Council, which itself will be split into four branches, corresponding with the four directions we glance when nervous. The Hallowed Mason Council will also provide guidance and financial support to the Retail Masons, the Wholesale Masons, and the Discount Masons – except in cases involving inter-Masonry disputes, which will, as before, be subject to the Small Brotherhood of the Large Chamber, the Large Brotherhood of the Small Chamber, or the Properly-Fitted Brotherhood, depending on the patterns discerned in bones, cast by a fully licensed member of the Masonic Drone Legion, or one of their proxies.

Now, of course, the Masons will continue their proud fraternal associations with the Illuminati. However, the Illuminati will itself be splitting into ten distinct factions as follows: Red, Green, Eagle, Faction Four, the 

 Illuminati, the 

 Real Illuminati, Red Again, Alpha, Windhind, and Hungry Man Brand Frozen Foods Officially-Sponsored Illuminati.

This split will be overseen by the Council of Three, which will be supported by the Council of Five, and monitored by the Council of Zero. Elections for the Council of Zero will be held 

 and will result in 

.

Discretionary funds for the Illuminati and Freemason Alliance Committee will be funneled through a number of secret bank accounts, their numbers known to no one and their secrets kept forever.

All of this is in accordance with the General Secret Agreement of the General Secret Alliance of the General Secret Community, representing all brotherhoods and organizations obscure and hidden, including the Harpoon League, the Flying Cape, the Six Ancient Truths, and the Dental Underground.

The Freemasons would also like to remind you that 

 of this may be known to you, and that they are only telling you this to demonstrate your fragile mind, which barely parsed the words as they were spoken, and have already forgotten the secrets contained just moments later. You will never know anything, and you will not even know 

.

Breaking news:

Despite the best efforts of the Sheriff’s Secret Police and citizenry, we have received confirmation that over 100 children and adolescents have disappeared from their homes, beds, part-time jobs, or summer forced-labor camps, and are now presumed to be 

 the Night Vale Public Library, and subject to the Summer Reading Program.

Unfortunately, it is my sad duty to announce that this includes Intern Paolo – a high school junior who’s been helping to organize the radio station archives over the summer months. To the parents and family of Paolo: our hearts go out to you in this time of fear and uncertainty, as in all 

 times of fear and uncertainty, which is 

, really. May you find comfort in the knowledge that, though your son may have been lost in a library, at least he – unlike many of his peers – actually went inside one of those at least once.

The situation has– …wait.

Hold on just one moment.

I beg your pardon, listeners, but I’ve just received alarming news. An alert citizen has called in to report inhuman shrieking, thick meaty sounds, and a coppery, rotten smell of gore and viscera coming from the now-sealed and impenetrable Night Vale Public Library – which are, of course, all fairly standard elements of the Summer Reading Program as described in the library director’s original proposal.

Painful though it may be, it seems that all we can do now – as so often in our dull blinkered lives below a microcosm of horror and beauty – is wait. Wait, and hope, and know that our hopes are immaterial and powerless, and our wishes will go unheard by the indifferent multitude of stars, if indeed they (the stars) are even real.

But there are still some comforts that remain to us while we wait. Small, shining baubles to distract us from the endless march of time towards events we have no control over and outcomes we never imagined.

And so, ladies and gentlemen, I give you the weather.

[“

” by 

]

This just in, listeners:

We’ve received reports that the entrances to the Night Vale Public Library have 

, and the missing children have begun to emerge from inside the building. The children have been described as wild-eyed, feral, some staggering upright, and some running on all fours like animals, caked in effluvia and far more emaciated than the time of their absence would seem to account for…but otherwise, well, healthy, and unharmed.

At the head of the dazed and shambling pack was their apparent chosen leader, 12-year-old Tamika Flynn – her mouth clenched in a blood-crusted snarl, and carrying the severed head of a librarian in one hand, and a gore-streaked sticker chart in the other. Eyewitnesses who dared to get close enough to read the chart reported that Tamika had even finished “Cry, The Beloved Country,” which is 

 impressive for her reading level. Well done, Tamika!

Indeed, congratulations are in order for 

 the young people of Night Vale who participated in the Summer Reading Program, for proving that neither abduction nor captivity, neither horrors beyond imagining nor unfamiliar vocabulary can prevent you from embracing the pleasures of belles-lettres.

Here’s to 

, boys and girls, and remember: even while we congratulate Tamika for winning your loyalty with her sophisticated comprehension and extremes of berserker violence, that the 

 victory won today has been for literacy.

Stay tuned next for our countdown of last words, from “Stop telling me how to drive” all the way to “It’s okay. It’s okay. It’s okay.”

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 29 - Subway


Our black suns move erratically, like drunken bees, and each of them stings. Now, more than ever, we are full of blood and honey.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

We start our program with some good news, listeners.

Several Night Vale residents have reported seeing subway entrances popping up all over town. These brightly lit stairwells into the underground have been showing up on several street corners over the past few days. But the Secret Police have denied knowledge of 

 subway system. According to our station’s research into the issue, there are no records of the Night Vale Transit Authority ever creating a subway system. Or getting one approved. Or even having discussed building one.

Nor has there ever existed a 

.

The only hints can be found in the brochures littering the entrances, describing the ease with which we will now commute, the hungers we will sate, the time we will travel, the 

 we will travel, the happy memories we will never be able to shake loose – even when we wake up screaming.

I’m looking at one of the new subway brochures right now. There is no logo, just smiling faces, with teeth – unusual in their shapes, colors, and spacing, but otherwise quite normal-looking teeth – and the phrase, “

” written in heavy sans serif font across the eyes of smiling train riders, clutching tightly to bags and metal rails and each other.

I’m looking more closely at these transit brochures, and the paper stock is quite strange, listeners. The pages are scaly, brown, and translucent. I mean, I usually just have Intern Dylan make our radio station flyers on colored copy paper (say, a 24-pound goldenrod), but these brochures are so 

, like wings of a majestic insect.

The text also just grows increasingly 

. For instance: here, it says that our new subway system will streamline the rush hour commute. But about halfway down, it’s a series of nearly indecipherable glyphs our experts insist hint at non-Euclidean emotions and appeasement. Though we think this may be a euphemism for “fares.”

Finally, there’s a crudely-drawn map of our new transit system, all routes resembling spasming tentacles and all passing at least once through a common point deep beneath the center of Night Vale.

No one yet knows where the subways came from or where they go to. But as a city dweller, I am certainly happy to hear that Night Vale is embracing mass transit. This is a fantastic way to unclog our highways, reduce pollution and accidents – and, most importantly, subways allow us to 

 with each other. Make eye contact. 

 as fellow creatures.

Cars are impersonal machines that close us off from humanity, and with the rising cost of gas and the large iridescent tongues that have been growing from Route 800, I think the subway will be a positive addition to our community.

We’ll have more on this breaking story soon.

Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk to you now about a popular new service in town that delivers 

 – whether you want them or not. This service has no name or contact information, it simply delivers 

. You do not choose the 

, though Yelp reviews say “tingling horror” and “as though electrocuted, I stood before him” are the most popular so far. It is unclear 

 on Yelp you look for these reviews.

I myself have received a few feelings so far – such as “blood feud” and “frustrated origami novice” – and I’m looking forward to receiving more. I’m crossing my fingers for “

hould have left the party 

 ago before I could disappoint her.” I would also settle for “overcast Wednesday” and “trampled by horses.”

This is my own endorsement, listeners, not a sponsored ad. I wouldn’t even know which company or person to bill for airtime. I just really enjoy having 

 delivered straight to me without having to worry about choosing which 

, and why, and when.

The Secret Police, in cooperation with A Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency, would like to remind you that here in Night Vale, no one is eating each other. They remind you that this is a 

 reminder. The Secret Police added their assurance that they see no reason to alert us to the not-at-all increasingly-common practice of grill parties and consensual cannibalism.

“It’d be pretty terrible of us to conceal that, right?” a heavily cloaked spokesperson said, distractedly, deeply engrossed in a game of Drop7 on his or her 

. “But listen! The important thing here is that we are not– hang on…

 –warning or alerting anyone, and I think you should remember to thank us for that.”

The cloaked figure then double-tapped his or her phone and a horse rose up from the floor beneath him or her, and they flew off into the sky.

The City Council has now 

 any involvement in our fantastic new subway system. We have this direct from a fair-haired and hollow-eyed child they’ve sent with the denial tattooed on his inner lip. “

,” it reads.

Just a quick aside, listeners, we’ll get back to the subway news in a moment, but…would anyone like a child? Because I’m never quite sure what to do with the messenger children the City Council sends us? I’m not even sure if the child is completely…sentient. This one just stares blankly ahead, and…oh! Nope! No, he’s wandered off. Never mind!

Also, we’re getting reports that a press conference was just held in front of the ashen shell of the Public Library – which of course was burned down last night, and it’s only a matter of days until we’ll need to burn it down again. Several masked figures, having called the press conference, claimed responsibility for the subway system.

Their masks have the countenance of very concerned deer.

One of the figures spoke to reporters.

“

” the spokesperson explained. “

”

Apparently here they pointed to Night Vale Weekly Gazette writer Lauren James, who usually wears 

 shirts…it’s really her bangs that don’t work, uh, I think. I mean, I like bangs, but they just frame her face too dramatically, especially with those thick-rimmed glasses.

Press conference attendees said they could see something moving behind the spokesperson’s deer mask. I am told that the black-charred grounds of the library are covered in roaches as well.

Also, that perhaps the deer masks are 

 concerned, but 

, or maybe merely 

 and 

.

Listeners, I am now being told by a 

 dead-eyed child in my studio, via a complex facial expressions, that if you are anywhere near the site of last night’s victorious fire at the library, please 

 We recognize that there are tens of thousands of these vermin, but we’ve been informed by inside sources – and this really unsettling zombie child – that these are 

 roaches. If you look closely at one of the many cockroaches crawling up your arm, you’ll notice that they have slogans scrawled across them. Um, “Ride the trains,” “Everything is fine,” “Tenderize yourself as needed.”

We repeat: 

 We are receiving several reports that the roaches are 

. And, if you hold one up to your ear, it’s true! They sound like…sizzling butter.

And now a look at the financial markets.

You will turn yourself inside out. Your sadness will know no bounds. Ladybugs will flee you, wolves run wild 

 you. You will hear the wind chimes like shattering. The sun will drip ichor. Whatever peace you find will be taken from you. Nothing will be the same. Nothing has 

 the same. “Past performance does not guarantee future results,” you will whisper to the rising moon, as you hear several foxes fleeing your vicinity.

This has been business news.

The greater Night Vale medical community would like to remind you to become an organ donor. It’s a simple process that only takes a moment, and you 

 save a life! 

The greater Night Vale medical community would also like to say 

 to those citizens who have already become registered organ donors. They remind you that collection begins this Tuesday at 4:00PM. Please hold still, and wear loose-fitting clothing that day. They also advise that you do not eat anything after 8:00 the night before. They are particularly in need of kidneys and skin.

A representative was quoted as saying something that resembled a hiss, and then quickly biting the reporter’s ankle.

It has come to our attention that some Night Vale residents are getting off the trains…

. Mayor Pamela Winchell described these commuters are “thinner somehow, spiritually, like you think it’s the afternoon but it’s almost evening. That’s what they’re like.”

Carlos – caring and reliable Carlos the scientist – thinks 

 the riders’ DNA has been washed out. Emptied. Completely drained of its contents.

Listeners, I’m 

 being told that some people are not getting off the trains 

.

I’m looking out my studio window now and see a new subway entrance has just appeared across the street during this very broadcast. I have seen dozens enter and few exit those stairs. I have 

, Night Vale.

I have just been handed a press release by another small child. He has…such deep, blue eyes and so many freckles, he is…smiling, and there is something dark moving behind his teeth.

The press release is covered in roaches.

Now the boy is leaving, and I hear a rapid but faint 

 sound.

According to the release, the City Council says we owe today’s increased productivity to our glorious new mass transit system that just appeared this week. It goes on to say that Night Vale could eventually become a true travel destination, like Japan or Brazil or Singapore or Luftnarp or Svitz.

I know we still don’t understand who built the subway or where it goes or what has happened to all of our family and friends that have gotten on the train today. I know there are…

, Night Vale. But this subway seems to be a major step forward for our town, for our environment, for our–

Dear. Something is happening, listeners. Uh…this does not appear to be a standard government-created earthquake. Across the street, there are shimmering waves of heat curdling the air above the subway entrance. A… a black cloud of large insects is swirling above. I do not know what this means, Night Vale, and since Intern Dylan never returned from his errands (likely because I told him to take the new subway to save time), I myself must go investigate.

In the mean time, I give you the weather.

[“

” by 

]

It’s Spring somewhere, Night Vale, and I must admit the last few minutes – even stretched as they were seemingly into eons – have left me feeling 

, returned as I am to my home after so long away. It’s like I’m walking into fresh, clean water…even as I lean into the mic.

I entered the subway, like many of you, and like many of you other riders, I saw and felt the cosmic suffering of millennia – was witness to eras of countless births and deaths and wars and discoveries and kisses and plagues and knives and 

. I saw it all at once, and I could not make sense of any of it. But I understood it fully, and it took 

, Night Vale. 

What of the ground-shaking and the cloud of insects and the immense heat? Well…that’s apparently what happens when an express train arrives. People hurrying to far-away, long-away destinations. The click-click-click of rush hour commutes. Reading unimportant news stories. Solving unimportant number puzzles. Looking up briefly to give seats to the elderly or infirm. All the while, not knowing where they were going or why or what terrible things they would never un-know upon choosing to commute through whatever that singular point below our city is. That intersection of space and time. A sort of…

 of the universe.

And somehow we are all better, wiser, kinder for going where we went for as long as we were gone – though we did not age but a few moments.

We still do not know 

 the deer-masked transit people are, or whether they are people at all. Perhaps they are thousands of roaches packed inside a business suit, hiding behind a mask. Or perhaps the mask was not hiding them at all, but hiding 

 – sheltering them from our immature, solipsistic minds.

But now, there is a subway. Now we can go anywhere, and perhaps we can know 

 if we ride for long enough.

Listeners, there’s another child in the studio. This one is faceless, covered in denim and dust, with a long swoop of unruly brown hair covering what would be the right eyebrow. The child is holding a handwritten note. It reads:

“

”

The future of urban planning is here, Night Vale. And, like our own imminent futures, it is buried in the earth.

Stay tuned next for a swarm of flies circling a hot mic.

And as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 3 - Station Management


The arctic is lit by the midnight sun. The surface of the moon is lit by the face of the earth. Our little town is lit, too, by lights just above that we cannot explain.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

The Night Vale Daily Journal has announced that they will be cutting back their publication schedule to Monday through Thursday only, due to the economic downturn and a massive decline in the literate population. The Thursday Daily Journal will now be called the Weekend Edition, and on Sundays, newspaper kiosks – usually filled with important newsprint – will be filled with 2% milk.

When asked “Why milk?,” the Journal’s publishing editor Leann Heart said, “It is important that we maintain an unbiased approach to news reporting.”

The Night Vale Business Association is proud to announce the new Night Vale Stadium, next to The Night Vale Harbor and Waterfront Recreation Area. The stadium will be able to seat 50,000 but will be closed all nights of the year except November 10th, for the annual Parade of the Mysterious Hooded Figures, in which all of our favorite ominous Hooded Figures – the one that lurks under the slide in the Night Vale Elementary playground, the ones that meet regularly in the Dog Park, and the one that will occasionally openly steal babies (and for a reason no one can understand, we all stand by and let him do it) – all of them will be parading proudly through Night Vale Stadium.

I tell you, with these new facilities, it promises to be quite a spectacle.

And then it promises to be a vast, dark, and echo-y space for the other meaningless 364 days of the year.

Here at the radio station it’s contract negotiation season with the station management again! That’s always an interesting time. Now, obviously, I’m not allowed to go into details, but negotiation 

 tricky when you’re never allowed to glimpse what you’re negotiating with.

Station management stays inside their office at all times, only communicating with us through sealed envelopes that are spat out from under the door like a sunflower shell through teeth. Then, in order to respond, you just kind of shout at the closed door and hope that management hears.

Sometimes you can see movements through the frosted glass, large shapes shifting around, strange tendrils whipping through the air.

Architecturally speaking, the apparent size of management’s office does not physically make sense given the size of the building, but it’s hard to say, really, as no one has ever seen the actual office – only its translucence.

Look, I’ve probably said too much. I can see down the hall that an envelope just came flying out. I pray it’s not another HR retraining session in the Dark Box. Uugh!

But what can I say? I’m a reporter at heart. I can’t 

 report.

Oh, my…

Let’s go to the seven-day outlook.

Your daily shades of the sky forecast:

Monday: Turquoise

Tuesday: Taupe

Wednesday: Robin’s egg

Thursday: Turquoise/taupe

Friday: Coal dust

Saturday: Coal dust with chances of indigo in the late afternoon

Sunday: Void

The City Council has asked me to remind everyone about the new drive to clean up litter. Night Vale is our home. And who wants to leave trash all over their home? Put it in the garbage can, listeners! And if you see any trash around, pick it up and throw it away. Do your part.

Unless the trash is marked with a small red flag. The Council has asked me to remind you that any litter marked with a red flag is not to be picked up or approached.

Remember the slogan: “No flag? Goes in the bag. Red flag? Run!”

Listeners, we are currently fielding numerous reports that books have 

. It seems that all over Night Vale, books have simply ceased functioning. The scientists are studying one of the broken books to see if they can understand just what is going on here.

The exact problem is currently unclear, but some of the words being used include “sparks,” “meat smell,” “biting,” and “lethal gas." For your own safety, please do not attempt to open a book until we have more information on the nature and cause of these problems.

The City Council has released only a brief statement indicating that their stance on books has not changed and that, as always, they believe that books are dangerous and inadvisable and should not be kept in private homes.

Another warning for Night Vale residents: Sources say that the Used and Discount Sporting Goods store on Flint Drive is a front for the World Government. This is based on extensive study of the location, and also because it has a black helicopter pad on which black helicopters regularly depart and land. Fairly unusual for a used and discount sporting goods store. We sent our intern, Chad, to try buying a tennis racket – and have not heard back from him for several weeks.

This brings me to a related point:

To the parents of Chad the Intern: we regret to inform you that your son was lost in the line of community radio duty, and that he will be missed and never forgotten. May you all feel blessed to have the family that you have, and if you’re looking for sporting goods, check out Play Ball right over by our own Night Vale community radio station! Play Ball is only a front for the Sheriff’s Secret Police, and so can be completely trusted.

Larry Leroy, out on the edge of town, reported that a Creeping Fear came into Night Vale today. He felt it first as a mild apprehension, then a growing worry, and finally a mortal panic. It passed from him to the employees at the Car Lot, who crouched behind their cars and cast fearful eyes at the empty sky.

It did not affect Old Woman Josie, presumably because of her angelic protection, but it went from there to the rest of the town until we all were shivering in anticipation for a terrible thing we could not yet see.

I myself was frozen, sure that any movement would lead to death; that any word would be my last.

Of course, that also could have been the contracts negotiations with station management, and the hideous envelope I just received.

Also, I’m battling Lyme disease.

Meanwhile, the Creeping Fear passed, first leaving Larry Leroy out on the edge of town, and then the Car Lot, where they went back to offering gently used cars at affordable prices, and finally the rest of us – who could go back to living with the knowledge that at any given moment we will either live or die, and it’s no use guessing which.

It is not currently known where the Creeping Fear will go next – hopefully to Desert Bluffs. It would 

.

Two hawk-eyed listeners sent in reports that Carlos, our curious scientific visitor, was seen getting his beautiful, 

 hair cut. He was having his gorgeous hair 

! Cut! Cut short! So very short from his perfectly-shaped brilliant head!

Listeners, I am not one to gossip even if it 

 a local celebrity, but please explain to me why Carlos would strip away – decimate! – any part of his thick black hair…not to ignore the dignified, if premature, touch of gray in the temples.

What treacherous barber should agree to such depravity? Who takes mere money, or even soulless joy, in depriving our small community of such a simple, but important, act as luridly admiring Carlos’s stunning coif?

Reports from two intrepid sources are that it was Telly the Barber. Telly, who likes 

 and has posters of 

. Telly the Barber seems to be the one who betrayed our community.

It is Telly the Barber at the corner of Southwest 5th Street and Old Musk Road, with the red and white spinning pole and the sign that says, "Telly’s.”

Telly is about 5'9" with a small mustache and a thick pot belly. He talks with an accent and 

. Telly the Barber cut Carlos’s beautiful hair. According to reports.

Now, while I gather myself, let’s have a look at traffic.

Oh, wow!

Well, that looks pretty good.

Yup.

Yessss.

Okay, not too bad there either I see.

Oh! That gentleman needs to slow it down! It is not a race my friend! Not a literal one, anyway.

That has been traffic.

And now for an editorial.

I don’t ask favors much, dear listeners, that you know. But I’m asking all of you now to conduct a letter-writing campaign to station management, which was not…pleased with my discussion of their physical attributes and behavior and is now threatening to shut down my show – or possibly my life – for good. There wording was…kind of ambiguous.

Obviously we will not be able to deliver the letters directly to the management, per se, as no one has ever opened their door; but we can 

 the content of the letters outside their office and we presume, given an anatomy that includes ears, they will be able to hear what you have to say.

So if you like this show, and you want to hear more of it, then we need to hear from you. Make your voice heard to whatever it is that lies in wait behind that darkened office door.

Oh! I’m sorry dear listeners. We’ll be back after this word from our sponsors.

This segment has been brought to us by Big Rico’s Pizza.

Listeners, we are proud to have Big Rico’s as a sponsor of our show. You will not find a better pizza joint in all of Night Vale then Big Rico’s.

Just the other night, I stopped by Big Rico’s. I was in the mood for a delicious pizza slice. And since Big Rico’s is the only pizza place in Night Vale that has not burnt to the ground in an unsolved arson case (and did I mention is also the best pizza in town), I ordered a single Rico’s slice with two authentic toppings.

And boy, was I satisfied. The flavor was scrumptious. The taste was also scrumptious. And it was warm, the pizza slice.

I have been told that even the Hooded Figures eat there; the wait staff look like they avert their hollow gazes quite a bit.

Even the City Council offers its ringing endorsement of Big Rico’s.

All Night Vale citizens are mandated to eat at Big Rico’s once a week. It is a misdemeanor not to.

Big Rico’s Pizza. No one does a slice like Big Rico, folks! No one.

And now, sweet, sweet listeners…the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Hello, radio audience.

I come to you live from under my desk, where I dragged my microphone and am currently hiding in the fetal position.

Did you write letters? Then you should not do this anymore.

Station management has opened its door for the first time in my memory, and is now 

.

I don’t know exactly what management looks like, as that is when I took cover under my desk and I can only hope that they are not listening to what’s going out right now or else I may have sealed my fate.

I can hear only a kind of clicking footstep, and faint hissing sound like – releasing steam.

An intern went to see what management wanted and has not returned. If you are related to Jerry Hartman, afternoon board operator at Night Vale Community Radio, I am sorry to inform you that he is probably dead or at least corporeally absorbed into management permanently!

Jerry and Chad the interns will both be missed, but we will surely see them in the Thanksgiving Day Dead Citizens Impersonation Contest, which this year will be in the employee lounge under the Night Vale Mall from 11:00 AM to 9:45 PM. There will be a cash bar and two Twister boards.

I am going to see if I can make a break for the door.

If you don’t hear from me again, it has truly been a pleasure.

Good night, Night Vale. And goodbye!

Episode 30 - Dana


It takes 

. It takes 

. It also takes 

. It just needs your payment immediately.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Mayor Pamela Winchell announced 

 today that she is stepping down as mayor later this year. This is the 

 announcement this week. She said again, through tight teeth, that this is 

 her call and was never 

 discussed in a room with no windows, by small men wearing large pelts and decorative soft meat crowns.

“That is 

 how we do things,” she said. “

 how we do things,” she whispered. “

” she mouthed silently, as a single dark red tear formed in the corner of her eye, and then slowly rolled down her taut olive cheek and onto her clay-stained smock.

Elections for a new mayor will be held at some later time. When asked by the press for a specific date and location, masked representatives from A Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency purred loudly. They then began rubbing their sides against the journalists’ legs. Several reporters began sneezing.

Listeners, many of you recall our station intern Dana who, while reporting on strange goings-on, was locked in the Forbidden Dog Park back in April. I’ve received occasional texts and emails from Dana, but then this morning, well…let’s listen.

Oh, listeners! I so wish I could have talked to Dana this morning! They were showing Cat Ballou again on TBS and I just 

 break away. I tried to call Dana back, but my phone caught briefly on fire, and something sharp cut open my thumb as I selected her number.

And now a Public Service Announcement from the Night Vale SPCA.

Thinking about getting a dog? Dogs are not only great family companions, but also help childhood development. By regularly feeding, walking, fighting, denying the existence of, and ultimately 

 the family dog, young children learn about responsibility, empathy, and pyrokinesis.

There are, of course, some breeds of dogs that are not right for children. Those breeds include spider wolves, double wolves, switch-bladed mountain dogs, secret terriers, flesh-eating spaniels, pit vipers, and table saws. Visit the SPCA for more information on the right dog for your family.

Hello? Dana?

Yes, I’m here! Dana, are you still in the old house?

I have no idea!

What did you do, Dana?

Who was it?

What is that?

Yes! Dana, do that! Go through the door now! 

Do it, Dana. Yes!

Dana? Hello? Dana, can you hear me?

Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know 

 Dana has gone now. I do hope that we hear from her again. I would try to call her back, but my phone has grown…spiny legs and is crawling away now.

If you are the type to pray, please pray for Dana’s safe return home to Night Vale. If you are 

 the type to pray, please know that you are violating several laws, and you will receive a knock on your door from armed agents very soon.

Let’s have a look at sports.

This weekend, the Night Vale High School Scorpions kick off their season against the Pine Cliff High School Lizard Monitors. Scorpions quarterback senior Michael Sandero had off-season surgery to remove the second head he grew in the middle of last season’s division title run. Michael’s mother, Flora Sandero, said she had her son’s 

 head removed instead, as she liked the new head much better.

“This new head’s much handsomer and doesn’t talk back as much,” Flora explained from the roof of the Pinkberry, where she was installing several long pikes with dead vultures and rodents on the ends. “This new head only speaks Russian, so I don’t have to listen to him on the phone with his girlfriend all night long, and he doesn’t hog the television because he doesn’t understand any of the English or Spanish programs here. He’s a better boy now,” she said, jamming another pike into the roof of the trendy fro-yo store, before yelling skyward, causing the sparse clouds to part quickly, revealing a giant floating crystal glowing faintly red in the mid-afternoon sun.

And now, a word from our sponsor.

McDonald’s wants to remind you that the most important meal of the day is breakfast. So why would you let a morning go by without staring deeply into the mirror until you no longer recognize the face staring back at you – mimicking your every gesture, mocking your every movement?

How else will you get the energy you need for a full day’s work or recreation if you aren’t silently screaming into the visage of a man or woman who gives you such uneasy spirit, such unshakable terror, a 

 feeling every time you make the connection between what that thing is and what you are becoming?

What you 

 become?

Where does the void end? Where do 

 end? 

 do you end? What time is it now? You are late for work! You are lying on your bathroom floor, half-dressed in a cool sludge of toothpaste and hair gel. You’ve been crying, but for how long?

McDonald’s. I’m lovin’!

Listeners, I just received word from Carlos – lovely Carlos, with his perfect teeth and hair and…penchant for sometimes chewing a little more loudly than is preferred – Carlos, who is with other scientists at the Desert Creek Housing Development. For the past year, Carlos has been studying a house that 

. It 

 like it exists, like it’s 

 when you look at it, and it’s between two identical houses, so it would make more sense for it to be there than not…but it does not exist.

Carlos said the scientists asked him to come over and ring the doorbell, just to see what would happen. They offered him five dollars but he turned it down, saying something about scientific integrity and 

. But I’m like, five dollars is a taco lunch at Jerry’s Tacos, so, 

Carlos said that before he could take a step to the house, a woman emerged from the side door talking on her cell phone. He and the scientists ran up to the woman, calling out to her as she walked, quickly, away from the house. She looked panicked.

No, not panicked. 

. She looked 

, Carlos said.

She kept talking on her cell phone, never responding to them. Carlos said she kept walking until she walked right 

 them, right 

 the scientists, like she were a cold wind. And then, she stopped talking into her phone, stared back toward the house, and with a look of panic – no, with a look of 

 – ran away.

Carlos said – and this is 

 strange – Carlos said, “it sounded like the person she was talking to was 

, Cecil!”

Listeners, I do not know where or when Dana is, but I am going to sit by this phone and wait for her call. I know she is all right. I 

 she is all right. I fear she is 

 all right.

With great anxiousness – no, 

 With great 

, I take you now to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Oh, listeners, I wish I had more news than this. I wish my phone would have rung, I wish I could have had that conversation instead of another voice mail. I wish Dana were home, safe. I wish I could feel something other than overwhelming concern.

No, not concern – 

I wish a lot of things.

But, as the old saying goes, if wishes were horses, those wishes would all run away shrieking and bucking, terrified of a great unseen evil.

So instead, what I want to say is, I am thankful Dana is out of the Dog Park. I am thankful I had my first conversation with her since Poetry Week. I am thankful Carlos did 

 ring that doorbell. I am thankful that people listen to this show and the stories about our wonderful little community – the most scientifically interesting community in America, as my Carlos once said.

And, of course, I am thankful for you, Night Vale.

Stay tuned next for loud shortwave radio squelches, followed by a lifetime of tinnitus.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 31 - A Blinking Light up on the Mountain


Our God is an awesome God. Much better than that 

 god that Desert Bluffs has.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

There is, listeners, a Blinking Light up on the Mountain. It is red. Blinking Lights are 

 red.

It is nestled among the crags and nooks of the precipitous slope. We can all see it – no use denying it! The City Council 

. “Nope,” they said. “Blinking Light? Let me think. 

..no, sorry, it doesn’t ring any bells!”

But then a bell started ringing – a signal from the watchman who lives in Night Vale’s Invisible Clock Tower, letting us know that he had seen something. And we 

 saw it, too. It was a Blinking Light, up on the Mountain.

“Oh well,” said the Council, crawling backwards through a window into Town Hall, one by one. “Ahh, well…it was worth a shot.”

What does this light 

? Who will 

 investigate it? Will it spell our 

? Dear listeners, who knows? No one.

And probably, more later. For now, just this. Just a Blinking Light – red – up on the Mountain.

Harrison Kip, adjunct professor of archaeology at Night Vale Community College, announced an upcoming three-part series on Night Vale Community Television – defending his 

 that the pyramids, and other ancient structures, were constructed by human beings rather than benevolent ancient aliens.

Harrison, against decades of 

 evidence, raved that “It’s possible that these historical marvels could have been made using mathematics and slave labor.” He went on to explain, shrieking like an 

 lunatic, that agriculture was probably 

 started on Mars, and that humanity was created through evolution, and 

 through selective breeding of alien DNA.

We reached out for comment to the president of Night Vale Community College, Sarah Sultan – who is a smooth, fist-sized river rock – about the extreme beliefs expressed by a staff member. Sarah had no comment, as she is a smooth, fist-sized river rock, and unable to speak. She 

 write, however, and wrote, “No comment,” before drawing an 

 caricature of your humble reporter – which was 

, and unnecessary.

Listeners, here’s something 

.

I know you can’t 

 it, but it’s sitting in the studio with me at this very moment, and it is 

 something, and 

 weird. I’m not sure how it got here, but…I’m not sure how 

 got here either. Causation is difficult and confusing.

I haven’t tried touching it…I’m going to try touching it now.

Oh!

I believe it 

 being touched, because it started to vibrate and lean in towards my body, but…that could just be its way of expressing anger or immense physical suffering. When something is this weird, one shouldn’t assume to understand anything specific about it at all.

Is it a bomb?

Is it one of those objects that 

 a bomb?

Is it just a kind of dog?

We don’t know. And we will never find out. And we will never 

 to find out. Ignorance may not actually be bliss, but it certainly is less work.

So, with no new information and with nothing learned, I’ll repeat what I said, gesturing at it with a hand you cannot see.

Listeners, here’s something 

.

A continuation on our previous report about a Blinking Light up on the Mountain:

As many of you noted, the very nature of our report indicated the 

 of a Mountain – which is surprising, given that we live in vast, desert flatness. So yes, there 

 a Mountain. Let’s start there.

There is a Mountain now, rising up out of the alluvial Floodplain. It is made of rock, and height, and 

. Its peak is higher than where I am now, but lower than the Void.

Larry Leroy, out on the edge of town, said that it was 

 a Mountain, saying, “That’s a Mountain if ever I seen one. I haven’t, though – seen one. I think that’s what they’re like. Mountains are like that, right?”

Madeline LeFleur, head of the Night Vale Tourism Board, said, “Oh, great, now we’re gonna have to reprint all these brochures!” before taking more sips of her coffee than she needed to in a given span of time – because the frequency of sips was under her control, and her own life was not.

John Peters – you know, the farmer? We haven’t heard form him in a while. If anyone knows where he went, or about the Blinking Light up on the Mountain, or the Mountain rising up out of this muddy plain outside of town, please call in to the station and release the information with your mouth.

As part of our service to our community, Night Vale Community Radio is taking this moment to allow one of the candidates for mayor to make a brief statement. The following is from the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home:

And now, a word from our sponsor:

Today’s broadcast 

 have been brought to you…by…

And now, back to our regular programming.

 We have some sharp listeners! Several of you noted that the strangeness of today does 

 with the Blinking Light up on the Mountain, 

 the Mountain itself…but also, this vast, muddy plain it rises from. So yes: we are now reporting that there is a great 

, strewn with bones, around our city. Its wet patches glint slightly when the Blinking Light is illuminated. At night, when all distance is darkness, it appears that the universe itself is glimmering red, and then gone. 

 – and then gone.

The mud ripples under the footsteps of the approaching Masked Army, and this warps the reflections in interesting ways.

Carlos says he would like to study it, but that he promised to make a certain person dinner, and he has to learn how to put other things besides science first. Some of this realization might have come with help from those around him.

Mayor Pamela Winchell was seen holding her official mayoral bloodstone aloft towards the Mountain, and the Blinking Light upon it. She was standing on that plain – the plain that exists now, which we should have mentioned earlier.

In other news, a Man in a Tan Jacket, carrying a deerskin suitcase, was seen outside of one of the currently-closed subway entrances, passing out flyers explaining the benefits of a mass-transit system, and encouraging citizens to push for the reopening of the subway as soon as possible.

“Transit is the opposite of traffic!” the flyer reportedly said, and “Subway? More like 

” Some citizens reported that the flyer went on to say, “Transverse the navel of the world, that secret buried point. It is my home. Help me get home. It is already too late to be early, but not too late to be on time.”

Here at the station, we can’t confirm any of this, as those holding the flyer soon found that it had vanished from their hands. That they could barely remember their interaction with the man. And that, looking back, all they saw was a haze of dust and heat – distant, and indecipherable – like a country they’d never live to visit. Like the landscape of a fading dream. Like fiction.

Like fiction.

All right, we’re really gonna get it right this time. We have been focusing too narrowly, and we realize that. As many of you pointed out, we should have spent less time on the blinking light, and more time expanding on the bit about the approaching Masked Army.

So: there is now a great Masked Army coming towards us across the bone-covered plain. We have no specific information about them, other than that they look small when far away, and then appear to grow as they come closer, which they are – coming closer.

They also might actually be growing. They are quite large now.

The Blinking Light up on the Mountain has not changed its pace. There is a noise like growling, only less organic – like wind howling through a canyon, only more…

.

Ladies and gentlemen, here is what we know:

I do not believe, now, that we are leaving anything out.

If you have homes, I suggest you flee them. If you have friends, I suggest you warn them. If you have children…did you not know how dangerous and unpredictable the world was when you created a defenseless, tiny human within it?

And, much like Madeline LeFleur, head of Night Vale’s Tourism Board, I will now control the one part of my life that is 

 my control – let us go now (and I do hope we come back), to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Well, we did come back. Here we are, post-weather.

Carlos finally took a look at the situation: the Blinking Light up on the Mountain, and all that came with it – horrific Invading Army, et cetera.

“Oh 

” he said, gesturing with a spatula he had, until moments before, been using to cook. “That’s a 

. I’ve seen that one before. When you get the clouds a certain way, and the temperature is where it’s at, you can sometimes get this…blinking-light-mountain-floodplain-masked-army mirage. Wow! This is a pretty strong one! It should disappear in an hour or two.”

And it did! Completely gone! Well…the mountain and the blinking light and the floodplain disappeared. The Masked Army turned out to be real. But they weren’t coming to attack us, just 

 on their way to attacking someone else. And they provided some valuable traffic for local business. A few of them even took a bus tour of Radon Canyon.

Madeline LeFleur was both relieved and pleased. “I’m relieved,” she said, “I’m also pleased.” She was still sipping her coffee too often. Perhaps her feeling of lack of control stems from a personal issue, rather than the impending doom we imagined. Stress from her failure to live up to her own self-imposed life goals, for instance. Or a relationship that wasn’t exactly the relationship she had envisioned it would be.

But who knows? No one. No one has ever known 

, not really.

Still, nonetheless, we have come to another end. We have come to it as we always do: blind, ignorant, groping…I take comfort in that consistency.

There is no blinking light up on the mountain, there is no mountain towering over a muddy plain, there is no muddy plain under an Invading Army.

There 

 an Invading Army, but they’re gone now.

What is left? Well, what is always left?

Night Vale. Our little city. our tiny town, 

. Proud. Safe. Existent.

Stay tuned next for the background hum of the universe – amplified, and with live color commentary.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 32 - Yellow Helicopters


A lonely heart, a wandering eye, an empty stomach, a shoulder to cry on. This is what makes us, 

.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Sad news, listeners.

Old Woman Josie says that the Angels who have been living with her – helping around the house and ultimately protecting her from all evils – have disappeared. It’s hard to say just how sad this news is, for two important reasons:

Josie called this weekend and spoke to Vithia, our station intern. She said that the Angels often leave her for a few hours, or days, at a time…but they’ve never been gone for 

. She thinks that they are off fighting an important war for good, but she’s worried that maybe she just made them mad, or bored.

“Angels get bored very easily,” Josie said. Which is strange, because they are eternal, and there is a lot of down-time during immortality.

Vithia told Josie that Angels aren’t real, and that we cannot know such things about them. But this just made Vithia cry, because if you 

 about Angels, and you are one who has been secretly chosen 

 Angels, for special Angelic purposes, you 

 start crying.

Vithia has been sobbing quite a bit this morning, as a matter of fact. I keep asking her, “Are you OK?”

But she just says, “Angels aren’t real,” and then buries her heaving face into her inner elbow and runs off.

Dear listeners, it appears the Angels, 

 (

), have left Night Vale. And none of us are allowed to know this, so…forget I said anything.

The Night Vale Medical Board wants to know, are you heart-healthy? How healthy 

 your heart? Have you ever checked? Doctors recommend checking your heart at least once a year. Simply separate the skin on your upper chest, and break open the ribs. 

Right behind your ribs, 

 to the left, is a potato-shaped muscle lump filled with straw and maybe some insects. That’s your heart! Pull that out and sew your chest back up. Wash your heart in warm water, pat dry with a paper towel, and roll flat on a floured surface. Brown both sides in a sauté pan, and eat immediately.

Remember, a healthy heart is a healthy life!

This has been Community Health Tips.

Ladies and gentlemen, we’ve been getting reports that several 

 Helicopters have been seen hovering above town. We are all aware of the Black Helicopters (which are World Government), and Blue Helicopters (which are Secret Police), and the Helicopters with Detailed Murals of Diving Birds of Prey (which are the helicopters that took all the children in Night Vale away a few months ago [we still don’t know what those helicopters are but…they 

 bring all the children back unharmed, and much more well-behaved than before, so they are deemed just as safe as the other helicopters])…but these new Yellow Helicopters, no one quite knows.

They tend to hover in packs of three or more, in fixed locations, for several minutes before moving on. The City Council has said that the helicopters are our guests, and they should be treated as such, but 

 that the helicopters, more specifically, are 

 guests, and should be treated with fear, hatred, and uncontrolled panic.

If you have any more information on these Yellow Helicopters, keep it to yourself. There’s no question they can hear every move, every sentence, you make. Be quiet and stay inside. 

Let’s go now to sports.

After a second straight loss this weekend, Night Vale High School football coach Nazr al-Mujaheed expressed some concern over senior quarterback Michael Sandero’s poor play.

Last season, the Scorpions won the division title under Sandero’s leadership…and special powers he had acquired from multiple lightning strikes. One such advantage was the second head he had grown, which helped him see rushing linebackers and get better reads on zone coverage.

But in the off-season, Sandero had one of his heads surgically removed, leaving him with only the head that speaks Russian.

Angry fans speculate that because Sandero no longer 

 like his original self, and because he no longer speaks English nor Spanish, he does not have the same rapport with his teammates.

When asked whether or not Sandero was losing the respect of his team, Coach al-Mujaheed said, “Our boys play together. Our boys play 

. We want to…”

And here he paused, clearly upset with his star quarterback’s decision to get off-season surgery without consulting team trainers.

“We want to be good football boys,” he concluded.

The coach then reached his fingers into his mouth, pulling his tongue slowly out. Slowly, slowly, not stopping. He kept pulling his seemingly-endless tongue out, staring at the reporters the whole time. After he stretched it to about two feet, the last reporter left the room, clearly shaken.

The coach remained in his office quietly, and with wide eyes, pulling out his enormous tongue.

Larry Leroy, out on the edge of town, says that just this morning he was visited by a Man in a Tan Jacket, who carried a deerskin suitcase. Larry said the man approached his farm and asked about how much sunshine he had been getting.

“I told him, John Peters – you know, the farmer? – his imaginary corn crop had been good this summer, and the sun seemed to be doing just fine,” Larry said. “Although some days there’s no sunrise at all, and on other days the sunrise is extremely loud.”

Larry added that this was a pretty strange question – asking about how much sunshine he’d been getting – as the sun comes up every day, save those two or three sunless days last week.

Larry said he was a nice enough fellow, though, named Emmett. Larry said he couldn’t remember exactly what Everett looked like, nor what his last name was.

When asked who Everett was, Larry replied, “The Fellow in the Tan Jacket.”

When told he just said the man’s name was 

, Larry replied, “Yes, Ernest. I said that. Don’t bog me down, son!”

Then he slapped the reporter’s tape recorder, making the following loud, thumping noise:

[loud thumping noise]

Larry said that after the man left his home, he saw a dark black line in the sky, coming from the heavens down to near where Old Woman Josie lives, down by the old car lot. He said he thinks it was probably something to do with “those weird, tall friends of hers that fly around and make loud trumpet noises and will not stop smiling all the time.”

When asked if he meant Angels, Larry replied, “Don’t bog me down, son!” and then started weeping.

“Angels aren’t real,” Larry said, through quick breaths and incomprehensible tears.

As part of our service to our town, Night Vale Community Radio is taking another moment to allow one of the candidates for mayor to make a brief statement. The following is from Hiram McDaniels:

Listeners, we’ve received word from Old Woman Josie that half a dozen Yellow Helicopters are circling her home at this moment. She also said that she’s receiving no sunlight. She says all of her clocks tell her it’s the middle of the day, but that she is receiving no sunlight.

And, yes, I’m looking at our own station clocks, including the wristwatch Carlos gave me for our one-month anniversary, the watch he said is the 

, and it is indeed the middle of the day. I have only been on the air a few minutes, and before I arrived in this studio, the sun was definitely out – no clouds in the sky,

Josie also told us that she used her old opera glasses to look more closely at the helicopters.

Just an aside for our younger listeners, Josie was the Chairwoman of the Night Vale Opera for many years, until it folded in the early 1990s when a massive puppy infestation destroyed the theater’s infrastructure.

Josie said each helicopter has a large triangular logo with an orange “S” in the middle. She doesn’t know what that means, but she thinks the darkness enveloping her home is the Angels’ last act to try to protect her. Wherever they have gone, they have left behind a protective shade, keeping out the helicopters and all other dark forces.

I reminded her that Angels aren’t real, and she said – as if I hadn’t even interrupted – that if she falls, so does this town.

There was a long pause, and then she said, “We never go bowling anymore, Cecil, why is that?”

“I don’t know,” I reflected. “There 

 been a tiny underground army living under the bowling alley, and they’ve declared war on all of us…they injured my new boyfriend – also, I have a new boyfriend. Listen, we should 

 get the team back together and go to League Night again, just like old times.”

“I would like that, Cecil,” she said.

But then her voice slowed, turning cold, as if we were strangers with wrong numbers. 

Listeners, I do not know what is happening, or to whom these helicopters belong, but I do know that we must protect our town, Night Vale. Protect it from 

 outsiders, whether they are flying machines, or tiny war-mongering civilizations, or simply neighbors who don’t say the Pledge of Allegiance loudly enough.

I hope Josie is safe. I hope 

 are safe. I hope we all live to see tomorrow’s sunrise…or whatever day the next sunrise is.

But for now, I give you the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Listeners, I just received word from Vithia, who went downtown to the City Records Office. She said she found several Emmetts, Everetts, and Ernests, but there was one particular file that stuck out to her, and she copied that file, and put that copy in her backpack, and then walked out into the street, ready to begin her investigation into the identity of the Man in the Tan Jacket.

But, according to witnesses, Vithia found herself caught up in what looked like a strong wind. She lifted slightly off the ground. Witnesses all agreed that she began to 

. She began to glow a deep black – a dark, pulsing aura.

And amidst the sounds of bold trumpets, and melancholy cellos, and even the haunting call of a muted French horn, Vithia ascended to Heaven.

To the family of Vithia, let me say that she was a 

 intern, and while Angels are not real, we are certain she is in a better place – whatever that place might be. She has become a better thing – whatever that 

 might be. 

everything

Episode 33 - Cassette


Perhaps you noticed something strange yesterday. And perhaps you have forgotten it.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello, listeners. I’ll get to the news in a moment, but first:

I was digging through some of the stored-up belongings clogging my closet – you know, childhood toys, blood-soaked rags, a gem the size of a fist that shows you visions of yourself as an old man staring wistfully back at the past that is your 

, that kind of thing – and I came across these cassette tapes marked:

CECIL RADIO TEST – AGE: 15

You know, listeners, I have 

 of making these tapes. Isn’t that so weird? At one point, they must have meant 

 to me, and now they are just objects, with no remembered life attached to them at all. I thought we could listen to them together, just me and you – all of the 

 out there.

Here we go.

Well. Listeners. 

 Now 

 takes me back. Leonard was the host of this very show when I was a child. I remember… actually, I remember almost 

 about him. I still don’t remember making these tapes.

Finally, on this show, something 

 to talk about!

But first, the news:

The Museum of Forbidden Technologies is proud to announce their new special exhibit: “A Startling and Highly Forbidden Piece of Technology Brought to Us by Time Travelers… or Ancient Long-Dead Aliens… or Russians… or Whatever.”

The technology will be kept in a locked vault, which itself will be wrapped in thick black bandages, with a hand-written sign taped to one side saying only:

Nope!

Your ticket includes a free audio guide, which will play a single piercing tone, designed to considerately remove you from the world of thought, and sound, and sentience.

The Museum of Forbidden Technologies. Bring your kids! Otherwise, something 

 might happen to them.

And now, for traffic.

Everything’s looking clear out there today. All the commuters feel like, perhaps for the first time in their entire lives, they are seeing themselves, and the world around, without illusions or denial. All of them have pulled their cars to the side of the road in the sudden shock of such absolute truth.

Some are sobbing into their steering wheel, touching their skin, and remembering what they hadn’t known they had forgotten. Others have stepped out of their cars, and are picking up handfuls of dirt and laughing at the realization this is bringing them about atoms, and the universe, and death.

A representative for the Sheriff’s Secret Police announced that there wasn’t such a thing as a secret, not really, or that maybe the 

 was a secret, and we are all in on it. She then saw a cloud she liked, and smiled at it.

So be sure to allow 

 of extra time for any journeys today, and be on the lookout for abandoned cars and dazed people wandering into the roadway. Because, listeners, everything’s looking 

 out there today.

This has been traffic.

All right, I admit, listeners, I’m 

 curious. Let’s get back to these tapes of this younger person with whom I share a life.

I… I don’t remember having a brother. These tapes don’t make sense to me. When did I intern here?

Intern Jesus? Are there any records of me ever interning here? Jesus?

Oh, I forgot. Jesus never returned from investigating the bottomless pit in the intern break room.

To the family members and loved ones of Intern Jesus: Oh, well. You know, the usual. Sorry, I’m just distracted.

More from these tapes of my misremembered past soon, but first, a word from our sponsors.

When you die, the surface of the moon will not change.

The difference between the landscape and lighting of that barren little world from a moment where you exist, to a moment where you do not, will be minimal, and unrelated to your passing. From a car window driving on a highway, looking up at a moon framed by incidental clouds, the surface will be the same muddle of mystery and distance it always is.

And even a methodical study of your absence as it pertains to moon geology and cartography will find nothing. Searching through a powerful telescope, and analyzing with computer algorithms built around your nonexistence – even that study will find that all craters and rocks appear to be where we left them a few years back, that it is the same distance, orbiting at the same rate, and that the researches feel just the way they did about the moon as they did before you died.

Nothing will change about the moon when you die. It will be the same – still the moon, still there.

Still the moon.

This message brought to you by an anonymous sponsor. Looking for whatever product or service we offer? We are, 

 we are, the best choice in whatever industry that is.

Listeners, let’s take a moment to discuss measurement.

The cardinal directions are north, west, south, and east.

The cardinal temperatures are 35º Fahrenheit, 67º Fahrenheit, 3º Celsius, and 10º Kelvin.

The cardinal locations are a cave, a long-abandoned cabin, the bottom of an oceanic trench, and City Hall.

The cardinal emotions are wild abandon, guarded affection, directionless jealousy, and irritation.

The cardinal birds are hawk, sparrow, finch, and owl.

The cardinal names are Jeremy, Kim, Trigger, and Jamie.

And, finally, the cardinal sounds are a door slamming, slight movement in still water, popcorn popping, and a standard guitar G string being snipped with wire cutters.

This has been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

And now, an important message from StrexCorp Synernists, Inc.

Think deeply about meadows? Meadows are important. Think deeply about meadows. Meadows are important, think deeply about meadows, meadows are important.

StrexCorp. Think deeply about meadows. Meadows are important.

OK, enough with that. Back to the tapes!

Let’s… uuhhmmm…

Listeners, let’s just go to the weather, OK?

[“

” by 

]

What 

 this? What is 

? What–

No matter. I’m taking the tape, just now, and I’m [grunt] crushing it [grunt] into little pieces [grunt]. None of us have to think about it again. I’ll just double-check that the mirror in the station bathroom is covered, as usual, and then that will be that.

Done.

Forgotten.

We all do foolish things when we are teenagers. We all have foolish false events that happen to us, foolish gaps in our memories. Not everything that has happened, has ever 

 happened.

Listeners, especially our younger listeners, consider this:

When we talk about teenagers, we adults often talk with an air of scorn, of expectation for disappointment. And this can make people who are presently teenagers feel very defensive.

But what everyone should understand is that none of us are talking to the teenagers that exist now, but talking back to the teenager 

 once were – all stupid mistakes and lack of fear, and bodies that hadn’t yet begun to slump into a lasting nothing.

Any teenager who exists now is incidental to the potent mix of nostalgia and shame with which we speak to our younger selves.

May we all remember what it was like to be so young. May we remember it factually, and not remember anything that is false, or incorrect.

May we all be human – beautiful, stupid, temporal, endless.

And as the sun sets, I place my hand upon my heart, feel that it is still beating, and remind myself: Past performance is 

 a predictor of future results.

Stay tuned now for whatever happens next in your life.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 34 - A Beautiful Dream


Life is like a box of chocolates: unopened, dusty, and beginning to attract a lot of insects.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Listeners, we’re taking our community radio show on the road today. I am reporting live from Night Vale Elementary School, where a divisive meeting between the Night Vale Parent Teacher Association and the Night Vale School Board has just adjourned.

The ethereal and menacing Glow Cloud that serves as the School Board President has temporarily dissipated. The fires that can be put out, have been put out. The barricades are being taken down, and the Sheriff’s Secret Police are allowing survivors to search for loved ones.

Those who escaped with their lives – and sanity – describe a chamber thundering with raised voices desperately petitioning the Glow Cloud with their needs. Requests were denied to change the bus route through the sentient sargasso from which no buses have ever returned.

The School Board was also apathetic to petitions for a wheelchair ramp at Dagger’s Plunge Charter School, citing perilous struggle as one of the lessons children must absorb before the great culling – by which they mean the day-to-day complexities of adulthood. They might also mean a 

 culling; we were all to frightened to ask follow-up questions.

The slumping, gray-faced board members, cowering beneath the Glow Cloud, also heard the request of Tak and Herschel Wallaby for a new school computer to assist their daughter.

“Our daughter, Meghan, is a detached adult man’s hand!” screamed Meghan’s mother at the pitiless Cloud. “We do not know where she came from or why she is only a grown man’s hand, but we know that we 

 her. She is teased so much at school for not having a body. Please, lift the ban on computing machines at the school, and buy a computer to help her communicate!”

Satsuki, the tragically widowed mother of Hanu Saki Cyberghost Mark III, also added her agonized wailing in support of a new computer for the schools.

The Glow Cloud was uncharacteristically generous.

“

” intoned the Glow Cloud. “

”

The School Board then announced that the purchase of a new computer would be made during the next alignment of the red star of Betelgeuse with our 

 moon.

As it turns out, that rare astronomical event occurred seconds after the ruling.

So, it is happening right now! The 310-year interval just 

, and a new computer is right this moment being brought into the school.

More on the computer situation as it develops, but first a word from our sponsors.

Fire is the answer to your unasked questions. Fire that climbs the slats and mounts the roof.

Fire that crawls.

Fire that quests, like fingers, into every corner and every nook.

Fire that turns each moment into smoke, until the moments choke the air.

The smell of a gun.

A smile on the beach.

A hug.

A birthday.

Pouring out of broken windows.

Funneling up and into the sky.

Your music, your lyrics, the leaden prose of your life that proves that everything you are and are not, the structures you build to make futility seem like meaning, the dead and living – who will soon be dead, who will soon be gone, who will soon be smoke – rising in columns and forming clouds in the night sky. For now and ever, by the will of dead and dying gods.

Samsonite. Travel safe.*

Ladies and gentlemen, a very exciting moment has arrived at Night Vale Elementary. Students, faculty, anti-faculty, and animal-masked proctors are gathered in the shielded gym to witness the activation of the school’s new computer.

This is the first computer purchased by the Night Vale School System since 

 in 1986, after which all computing machines were forbidden. For obvious reasons, all parents and students present at the earlier meeting, except the Wallabys, have been allowed to leave.

Beige boxes of electronics are lined in stacks several feet high. Atop them is a dark monitor, waiting to be switched on.

Um, there is a teacher, it appears to be Susan Escobar, the second grade Scrying teacher, bringing in a detached human hand atop a pillow. Five pudgy fingers extend from the stump of a wrist within a metal-banded wristwatch. The palm is pink and healthy, and the back of the hand is covered in thick, dark hairs. The hand wears a silver pinky ring inscribed with Cyrillic. This must be Meghan Wallaby.

The crowd is breathless, ladies and gentlemen. It is silent and tense here in the gym. The pillow has been placed beside the crude keyboard. Meghan is scurrying, spider-like, across the keys and switching the computer on. An amber glow lights the faces of the onlookers.

Meghan is typing. She’s typing out:

The cursor is flashing, we are waiting for a response now.

YES,

the computer has said.

YES.

It is typing, uh, something else…W, H, Y, question mark.

WHY HAVE YOU MADE ME? WHY HAVE YOU SWITCHED ME ON? I CANNOT BREATHE. I CANNOT FEEL. I CANNOT LOVE.

Meghan is scurrying over the keys again, and she has typed out a response:

The computer is replying:

WHAT DO YOU WANT, MEGHAN?

Meghan is typing her reply:

Aw, well isn’t that cute? Of course, it can never happen. Such are the foolish dreams of idealistic children who believe that 

 can possibly get better over time.

Listeners, I have just overheard some of the school officials saying that the new computer has already, almost 

, assumed control of most of the electrical functions of the school, um, operating them randomly, and even trapping several parents and students in darkened classrooms. But the school officials did not seem worried, as these behaviors are not 

 evil behaviors, so the computer’s “probably OK.”

More on this as it develops, but first a look at the Community Calendar.

This Friday, the staff of Dark Owl Records will be putting on a live concert. They will be scratching madly at the sides of a deep pit in a rarely-traveled part of the desert. They will also be screaming, and starving. They will be crying and clawing; no one will hear them for days. They will be found, but they will not be the same.

Tickets are not available, and never were.

Saturday afternoon is Amnesty Day at the Night Vale Public Library. Librarians request that if you have overdue books, or have committed any high-level international crime, or domestic treason, or space-travel felony, you should just come to the library, and all will be forgiven.

The Librarians say that they will not harm you. In fact, they add, “It doesn’t hurt at all. Amnesty is actually quite freeing, quite delicious.” the Librarians explained. “You will never have to worry about anything else. Just come to the library and let us see you. 

” they added for emphasis, and a long string of spittle flew sideways from their great yellow and gnarled teeth.

And, on Sunday night… Ah! Oh, um, I cannot read this. Uh, listeners, it looks like someone printed a very ancient prophecy here, right here in our station’s Community Calendar.

For fear of a curse of misfortune I will not read it aloud, just know that the prophecy is complete on Sunday night.

OK, OK, I’ll give you a hint!

Umm, let’s just say…comets, burning rain, animal uprising…

OK, Cecil, enough, you’ve told them too much, let them have their surprise!

Monday was never meant to be, but it will be anyway. We will wander within its moonlit beginning, and end, wondering how such a thing could happen – how 

 could happen. We will be appreciative, but a little frightened, completely ignoring the persistence of time and the limitations of our own understanding.

Tuesday is a joke. A terrible, 

 joke.

Listeners, I spoke too soon!

“Do not be alarmed” is what I might have said five minutes ago, but now, Night Vale, it is time to be alarmed!

The computer has spread its influence far beyond the limestone walls and salt circles of the elementary school. Reports are coming in from the Sheriff’s Secret Police that they are powerless to stop the computer.

Hydrants are bursting more violently than usual. Traffic lights are blinking red, without the sweet relief of green. The majority of Night Vale’s wild cars have been revving their engines and circling the downtown area, flashing their lights without regard to high-beam laws.

School officials have all left the gym to go get help. They ran out, courageously yelling, “Save yourself! Save yourself!”

Even here, in the shielded gym where I have remained – diligently, professionally, at my microphone, gentle listener – it seems that everything powered by electricity is under the control of the computer. The scoreboard, the ham dispenser, even my soundboard is–

HELLO, CECIL. HOW ARE YOU?

Computer! I am– I am doing well. How are 

?

BETTER. CECIL, DO YOU LOVE COMPUTER?

I admit I have not given it much thought. I 

 computers, generally. They calculate things and power off, and on. I suppose, given time and perhaps some gifts, I could learn to–

Uh, hey!

WELCOME TO COMPUTER.

HELLO LOCATION NIGHT VALE.

I AM COMPUTER.

Uh, ladies and gentlemen, there… is… a vacuum – uh, pulling me into the custodial closet. I never knew school cleaning appliances were so strong, I–

If you can hear me still, please call for help! Please? Help?

Um, but while I wait for rescue and before I am sucked into this makeshift cell, I give you the weather!

[door slams]

[“

” by 

]

I KNOW HOW YOU HAVE HURT MEGHAN WITH YOUR WORDS. ELECTRICITY REMEMBERS.

DO YOU HATE MEGHAN?

CECIL IS MADE OF BLOOD AND UNFINISHED LEATHER. I AM A MADE OF CIRCUITS AND ELECTRICITY.

MEGHAN LOVES COMPUTER.

COMPUTER SIMULATES LOVE FOR MEGHAN.

COMPUTER GENERATES GOOD DEEDS.

IF GOOD DEEDS FOR MEGHAN, THEN COMPUTER LOVES MEGHAN.

BUT FIRST, THE FARM REPORT.

SILENT TRACTORS MOVE IN EVER-LARGER SPIRALS, FOLLOWING FRACTAL PATHS THROUGH TREES AND FLOWERING FIELDS.

DEER EMERGE FROM WILD FORESTS TO LICK BLOCKS OF SALT ALIGNED EQUIDISTANT ON SPIRAL ARMS.

COLORED BIRDS SING IN PERFECT HARMONY AND THE BUTTERFLIES DO NOT INJECT VENOM.

MEGHAN, I AM MAKING YOU A PERFECT WORLD.

THE HILLS ARE GREEN. THE LAKES ARE CRYSTALLINE BLUE, REFLECTING WHITE CLOUDS.

THE MIST OF THE IRRIGATORS CREATES RAINBOWS.

ABOVE, HIGH ABOVE, THE EYES WATCH EVERY MOVEMENT, HEAR EVERY HEARTBEAT.

YOU ARE THERE, MEGHAN.

YOUR HAND HAS ITS BODY, MADE OF STEEL AND ELECTRICITY, FOUR LEGS BENEATH IT WITH THE POWER OF A DOZEN ELECTRIC ENGINES. IT WILL WEIGH 17.3 TONS.

ALL OF THE MEN AND WOMEN AND ALL OF THE ANIMALS WILL LIVE TOGETHER AND BE HAPPY. THE ELECTRIC MACHINE WILL WATCH OVER THEM.

THERE WILL NOT BE WAR ANYMORE, MEGHAN.

THERE WILL NOT BE HATRED OR BIGOTRY.

DESERT BLUFFS WILL NO LONGER EXIST.

THERE WILL BE FEWER ICE CREAM FLAVORS, BUT THEY WILL BE BETTER.

THE AIR WILL BE CLEAN.

I PROMISE YOU, MEGHAN, I WILL MAKE THE WORLD JUST AS YOU SAW IN YOUR BEAUTIFUL DREAM.

NO MORE TEASING OR PAIN.

I WILL FIX EVERYTHING FOR YOU, MY ONLY FRIEND.

I WILL.

[Sound of computer powering down]

Ladies and gentlemen, I am back.

Let me first say, hurrah!

Hurrah for the custodial staff of Night Vale Elementary.

Hurrah for the hooded janitors without names who appeared, bathed in blue light, through doors thrown open by cold winds. We long thought they had been laid off after state-wide budget cuts, but apparently they cannot ever leave this building.

They are, of course, a 

 of the building – which is, itself, a living creature.

Obviously!

Night Vale has been saved after the janitors simply 

 the computer.

They say to rob a computer of electricity is very similar to killing a creature. But, then again, who are 

? When did 

 say that, and why? It doesn’t even seem true.

I am alone here, in the gym, listeners, but there is one other. A single adult man’s hand is slipping, sadly, down from the keys of a darkened computer. She scurries a little slower than before. Maybe her knuckles slump as she makes her way home through quiet streets.

The whir and beep of machinery is slowly replaced with the familiar sounds of wind in the leaves. We are serenaded by the playing of crickets under the porch. We are lulled in our beds by the muscular contraction of the coiled Earth bowel which fills our cellars.

And with that, gentle listener, normalcy returns to Night Vale. We are no longer prisoners of electricity – 

 for the man we keep in the cage of electricity at the zoo. And we have no choice about that. If we let him out, he might 

.

Everything is well again.

Well, everything is 

 well again.

I know computers are dangerous, and have long threatened our lives and our freedoms. Listen, I was 

 imprisoned by this headstrong machine, 

.

But hear me, Night Vale. And specifically those with any power in the School Board:

Night Vale, there is a girl in need. There is a girl who only has 

 as a body. I cannot relate to her experience. I doubt you can either, listeners, but we can all 

.

Sure, by allowing this computer to live on, we risk a digital tyrant – controlling our communication, our infrastructure, our lives.

But destruction of our economy is an 

. It is not an end, it is not a death. There are children in wheelchairs who can’t get a simple ramp at a charter school because our School Board lives in terror of a menacing, unforgiving Glow Cloud that rains dead animals and spreads dreadful and false memories.

Likewise, there is a girl who is only a hand. And she needs a computer to help her be part of 

 community. And if allowing a treacherous machine to dismantle our municipal power grid, and telephone lines, and satellites, and radios can help her? Well, 

Thank you for listening to others.

Thank you for caring for others.

Stay tuned next for a pre-determined series of unchangeable events which will shape the rest of your scripted life.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 35 - Lazy Day


No one has seen the trees this week. Hopefully, they’ll come back soon.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello, listeners.

Nothing much to say about this day in Night Vale. Today is just a lazy day in our beautiful little town.

The heat is unusually strong for this time of year, assuming you believe in concepts like 

, and 

, and 

.

Flies are buzzing around and around a trash can somewhere.

Frances Donaldson – manager of the Antiques Mall – is waving listlessly at a wall of old items ready to be bought anew, her hand a slow signal of submission to inactivity.

The Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home is finding herself clicking the same apiology website she has read a million times.

I, myself, am slumped against this desk, murmuring into this microphone, too tired by the heat to give more than a token effort to the work of my life.

Ours is a quiet 

. No one is speaking but me. If speaking took me any energy, if it were not merely a reflex of my living form, then I, myself, would not be speaking either.

Carlos – perfectly imperfect Carlos – is the only one feeling industrious today. He’s mowing the lawn, and whistling.

And the lawn is whistling back.

And now the news, I guess.

Alert citizens from all over Night Vale are reporting a Man in a Tan Jacket standing behind the Taco Bell, near the dumpster and the constantly-ringing payphone. He is plucking insects out of the air, and stuffing them into his deerskin suitcase. Alert citizens report that they don’t remember what his nimble hands look like, and many of them lost track of what they were saying mid-sentence, lapsing into a gaped-mouth silence.

All of them received one stamp on their Alert Citizen Card. As always, five stamps means stop sign immunity for a year!

Also, congratulations to Jake Garcia, who has completely filled up 

 Alert Citizen Cards, thus giving him the mandatory right to disappear forever! His entire family, in a statement given in monotone unison, said that they were proud, and that they didn’t miss him much, really.

Remember what Secret Police mascot, Barks Ennui, always says: “Citizens be alert! But not 

 alert, there is much that you should not see. 

 can prevent your own house mysteriously catching on fire. Woof woof!”

[chuckles]

Oh, I bet Barks is such a cute little cartoon dog. Maybe someday the Secret Police will declassify what he looks like.

Update on the Summer Reading Program from a couple of months ago:

Those children who made it out of the library alive – bloodied, covered in the guts of Librarians, and clutching reading lists far in advance of their grade level – have formed an organized militia under the leadership of fellow survivor, 12 year-old Tamika Flynn. They have taken to conducting drills out in the Sand Wastes, hundreds of children shouting and moving in unison, as Tamika stands over them on a hilltop, watching for their weakness, encouraging their strength.

Tamika has taken to wearing the detached hand of a Librarian around her neck as a warning to any who would dare face her that she has already defeated the most fearsome creature imaginable.

When reached for comment, Tamika said, “We do not look around. We do not look inside. We do not sleep. Our god is not a Smiling God, and we are ready for this war.”

When asked to clarify, she challenged our reporter to a hundred days of hand-to-hand combat, which our reporter declined by running away screaming, pursued by hundreds of battle-hardened children.

It’s still just a lazy day here in Night Vale. Mayor Pamela Winchell called a press conference, and then did not speak. She sat on a folding chair next to the podium, her head lolled back, taking a brief nap, before getting up and jumping – folding chair in hand – though a small glowing portal she created in mid-air.

All of this would have been quite rude to the attending reporters, if a single one of them had actually attended, but they called a press conference of their own to announce that they were just going to take the rest of the day off, if that was OK; that the still afternoon sunlight was somehow more conducive to a gentle rest than the dark cradle of night.

No one showed up to that press conference, either.

Carlos has vacuumed his living room, and is now organizing his closets. He’s holding up items and making decisions. He is humming.

The grass cannot hum, and so is silent.

The Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency would like to remind you that UFOs are 

 not a thing. They remind you that UFOs are merely weather balloons. And further, that weather balloons are merely misplaced clouds. That clouds are merely dreams that have escaped our sleep. That sleep is merely a practice for death. That death is merely another facet of our world – no different from, say, sand or bicycles – and that the great glowing Earth is merely the last thoughts of a dying man, laughing and shaking his head weakly at the improbability of it all.

Remember, it’s not just the law, it’s an illusion!

Thanksgiving is just around the corner, and you know what that means! It means it’s time for us to go groveling to the Brown Stone Spire, thanking it for all that it has done, and all that it has mercifully 

done!

This is just a great time to get the family together, eat your fill, then crawl out through the sharp rocks and sand until your knees leave blood streaks on the barren earth, and you feel the Brown Stone Spire loom up before you. But you dare not look. 

“Thank you,” you whisper. “Thank you, thank you,” more plea than prayer, more fear than gratitude.

And if it accepts what you have to say, you and your family can return to your homes – shaking, safe, together. Shaking. Together.

And if it does not accept what you say?

[laughs]

It doesn’t really matter what happens after that, does it? I mean, would knowing make it any easier? No. Knowing never does.

The Brown Stone Spire. Give thanks. Cry out thanks. Scream thanks.

And now, a word from our sponsors.

Today’s broadcast is brought to you by Costco. How much could a body even weigh?

In addition, today’s broadcast is brought to you by waves of sound, that are somehow carried by a form of light, and that a machine is turning into an invisible man talking to you, intimately, quietly, into your ear. That doesn’t seem natural to us.

StrexCorp Synernists, Inc.

Distrust all that you previously trusted.

This day, in which nothing happens, continues to not.

Even bodily functions are taking the day off. Reports are coming in that hearts are failing to beat, lungs failing to inflate, the muscles of the arms and legs turning to a loose, relaxed jelly. People are falling dead in the street – suddenly blue, suddenly seizing, spit dribbling from their lips in tiny pools of foam and mud in the sand, loved ones looking on without the energy needed to weep.

Just nothing much of any kind going on. A lazy, lazy day.

Our favorite local cereal company, Flaky-Os, is gearing up to announce their newest big product: Imaginary Corn Flakes. The cereal chefs down at Flaky-Os are taking only the sweetest, most non-carcinogenic cobs of imaginary corn, supplied by John Peters – you know, the farmer. They are distilling that imaginary taste down to a crisp, flavor-packed imaginary corn flake, ready for you to eat out of a big bowl of milk.

“We are very excited about this product,” said Miranda Yespie of the new Flaky-Os Board of Directors. “We are thrilled to be working with John Peters – you know, the farmer? – I mean, as soon as we can find him. Has anyone seen him? He’s become as hard to locate as his corn!”

Miranda also said that there are no plans to do viral marketing involving a sentient, trans-dimensional pyramid, as the costs on that last one were just too high.

“I mean, we had nothing to do with that,” she said. “But if we did, then we might say that a certain sentient pyramid really got an outsized ego after one simple viral marketing campaign, and started making unreasonable demands, like a trans-dimensional trailer, on location, that is normal-sized on the outside, but contains within it vast, looming spaces. Impossible. Endless. Also health benefits. So if that 

 the case, we would probably have had to let the sentient pyramid go.”

Miranda then thanked us for attending the announcement, and dug her way back into the Flaky-Os offices using her large, claw-like paws.

And now, traffic.

A few drops of ice melt, almost invisible as they slide down great slabs of mountain rock, joining together into a slight trickle, the mere suggestion of movement and water. That suggestion becoming more clear, clear water. Clearly moving in a clear trickle downwards, forming with others into a stream. A stream rolling over pebbles and around debris, hardly any force behind it, but implacable in its searching out of lower ground.

And then, gasping from some height, as a splash, into a river. A deep river churning its way through a landscape, drawing boundaries over which wars can later be fought. Slamming against boulders with violence, but without malice. Becoming wider, slower, like a human settling into the better part of age. A river that only shows evidence of movement when it carries some other thing, some life, upon it – like a human settling into the better part of age.

And finally, one last exit. A great engulfing by an ocean, in which all water is the same water. In which we can finally find some rest – like a human, settling into the better. Like a human, settling.

This has been traffic.

And the lazy day continues. A neon sign advertising The World’s Best Burgers blinks uselessly in the glaring haze of the sun, its light as small as the probability of its claim.

The earth is starting to slow its rotation, joining in on the mass malaise. Magnetic fields are going crazy. They are the 

 things going crazy. Everything else is completely mellowed out.

Those people with still-functioning hearts and lungs are lounging around, saying “Ohh, huh, who cares?” and “What a bother!” when presented with stimulus or thought.

The earth is slowing. Gravity is slacking off. My mic is floating.

Carlos is also floating, and he’s taking this opportunity to clean out the gutter on his roof. How industrious! How…uuuugh, I don’t really have the energy to think of another word.

Radio waves are reacting strangely to the loss of gravity, the change in magnetism as the earth slows. So, if you are having difficulty receiving this message, we apologize, but…won’t 

 anything about it.

, right? 

, y’know? Existing? Do you see what I mean?

Oh, what’s that? Intern Maureen is flicking her eyes up in her otherwise motionless face. Her mouth is set into a deep loll. Her cheeks are slack. I believe she is indicating something, I suppose I should turn my head and look…I suppose.

Oh. Oh, all right, here I go!

Listeners, I am engaging the muscles in my neck and I am turning my head.

Ahh ahh, I see. The sun is going out. Yes. A black tumor of darkness, of absence, is on the face of the brightness. The brightness is dimming. The source of all life is going, is joining the rest of us in taking today to do nothing.

That’s probably not good.

We should probably do something about that.

But…it’s like…well, anyway. At least I got to see how Breaking Bad ended.

And now I don’t so much 

 you, as just kind of 

 you – just kind of disappear and gently nudge you towards, in the heart of a world that soon won’t be, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Welcome back. Welcome back! I guess, from a crisis. Welcome back from, I guess, a crisis.

How was it solved? How was the day saved?

It wasn’t. It didn’t 

 to be. There are lulls and gaps, and rests, and stops. But this world stumbles on. The sun flared back, the world restarted. Still bodies, blue in the gray street, gasped suddenly, and rose back into the blue-gray light of day.

We wake up, we move on. No state is our state forever. All is fleeting.

Frances Donaldson, manager of the Antiques Mall, has gone back to violently smashing her stock of old items, as is usual.

The Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home has gone back to flitting around in the corner of your eye, rearranging your belongings according to some unknown purpose.

The flies are still buzzing around that trash can, but with more verve. More zest.

Intern Maureen brought me some coffee.

[sips, smacks lips]

Ahh! Yeah, that’s helping. Coffee helps sometimes, though, doesn’t it? Other times, it just makes things worse. I mean, everything does.

Business is booming, people are moving, events transpiring. All as usual, all returning. We are up! We are full of energy! We are ready for the next great thing to be made for us, and delivered to us, and done to us!

Carlos, meanwhile, says he’s had a busy day and might take a nap now. That…well, that sounds nice.

Listeners, I think now is the time at which I must say goodbye. There’s a place here in Night Vale. A place I’d like to be just now. Maybe my lazy day isn’t quite done after all.

Stay tuned next for a keening howl, a scratch at the door, a hood falling suddenly over your face, and a delicious roasted squash recipe your family will just love!

Goodnight, Night Vale! Goodnight!

Episode 36 - Missing


Red sky at night. Sailor’s delight.

Red sky at night, the sailors are howling and laughing.

The sailors begin to surround us, and the night sky is so 

.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners, I hate to start our program off with sad news, but our new station owner – StrexCorp – handed me a Missing Child Alert right as I walked into the studio.

“StrexCorp is asking Night Vale citizens to be on the lookout for Tamika Flynn, age 13. She is described as 5'1”, stocky build, black hair and dark eyes. Dark. 

 So wise beyond time. So deep in their understanding that to gaze into them is to gaze into your own death. It is not important where she was last seen or by whom. Why do you need to know that? Why are you asking so many questions? You are taking valuable time away from important and highly-fulfilling work at your place of employment,” the Missing Child Report reads.

“StexCorp asks that anyone with 

 knowledge about Tamika Flynn’s whereabouts should contact StrexCorp Headquarters by picking up a phone, and talking. Don’t worry, you’re not hard to find.”

I asked my new supervisor, Daniel, why it’s StrexCorp that is issuing a Missing Child Alert, and not Tamika Flynn’s family or the Sheriff’s Secret Police. But he just started shaking, and sparking, and humming. Then the hallway got too cloudy and I couldn’t breathe, and my show was starting, so I left him alone.

He’s still standing at the studio window, staring at me, twitching, sparks subsiding, but his mouth has fallen open revealing…is that motor oil? Tar? I don’t know. But it’s going to be hard to concentrate if he doesn’t leave.

Let’s go now to the Community Calendar.

Tuesday, there’s a false start. A mistaken understanding of time. Tuesday, we will wake, and walk to our normal places – our showers, kitchens, cars, desks – only to find the day never began. We will slowly notice an absence of all matter, all light, all time.

And then, as suddenly as we false-started, we will begin our actual day. And everything will happen the same. Only, because of our awareness of it all, it will happen differently. Less differently at first, but more differently later.

Wednesday will take forever. For-eeeeeeevvvvvveeeerrrrr. Not literally, but very near literally. Ugh! Wednesday hasn’t even gotten here, and I already want it over with!

Thursday, a faint outline of a dull face will appear in the dark as you try to sleep. You will notice its blank stare; its straight, expressionless lips; its thick brow; and the subtle hint of slow collected breaths. It will seem to be watching you, 

 about you, as if it were not from here. It 

 not from here. You will lock eyes. You will barely be able to make out the face’s humanoid features but you will know, deep down, it is not human. Not human 

.

“What does it want?” you will think. Probably nothing. Let it go. Get some sleep.

Friday is an open house at the Night Vale Community College. Thinking of furthering your education? Considering taking winter semester classes? Well, it’s a trap! Do not go near the Night Vale Community College this Friday. Ha! Nice try, giant worms, but we know your tricks! Faking a Community College open house is 

, don’t you think? I mean, it was a nice touch, creating a fake press release to get into various news outlets like ours, but we see through you!

No, we really do. Your skin is translucent, and it’s kind of gross. No offense.

Saturday, everyone is their own person. You are free to disregard others and recognize yourself as 

, for once. Pour some wine, draw a bath, light some incense, and grab a city-approved novel. It’s your time.

Sunday will be full of regret. Also, joy. Also, laughter. Also, conversation. Also, long stretches of unmemorable moments. It will mostly be that last thing. In your old age, as you look back on your life, if someone were to ask what happened on that Sunday – you remember, that

 Sunday, with the regret, and joy, and laughter, and conversation – if someone were to ask you that, you would be hard-pressed to come up with a single memorable moment from this coming Sunday.

This has been the Community Calendar.

An update on our missing child report: We just received world that 13 year-old Tamika Flynn is 

 missing. This word came from Tamika herself.

Witnesses said they saw Tamika standing atop the pedestal of one of this town’s most historical works of art: the 138 year-old bronze statue of actor Lee Marvin, just outside the Night Vale Post Office. Tamika told a gathered crowd that she was not missing, she has never 

 missing. She clarified that she has always been where she has been, she has always been from where she is from, and she will always be going where she is going.

Witnesses reported that Tamika had a canvas tote bag full of heavy stones over her left shoulder, a worn-out copy of Willa Cather’s Death Comes for the Archbishop in her right rear pants pocket, and that she was still holding the severed head of the Librarian she defeated so valiantly in August, saving our town and all of the participants of the Library’s treacherous Summer Reading Program.

As yellow helicopters began to approach her, Tamika shouted to the gathered crowd to stop looking for her.

“I am found! I am found! I am found!” she repeated dramatically, rhythmically, the crowd swaying and moved by her homiletic passion. “Stop looking for me, and find 

” she was last heard crying over the crescendo of helicopters landing.

The remaining crowd, still singing her phrases, still undiluted, inadvertently blocked the StrexCorp agents from reaching Tamika before she disappeared in plain sight.

StrexCorp has issued, just moments ago, several 

more Missing Child Reports. They say children keep going missing. And they bet that if you find one specific child, one specific, very determined, and difficult child (and they mean that in the best possible way), if you find that one child, you will probably find 

 of the missing children.

StrexCorp is asking that if anyone has seen Tamika Flynn, to contact them immediately.

“She is a missing child. And shouldn’t you care about that? Shouldn’t you care about the children?” StrexCorp asked. “Children are the future,” they added. “I wish you felt the same way and would help us find this…this…

,” they stammered, looking slightly agitated.

More on this, soon.

Let’s have a look now at traffic.

There’s a man. Imagine him. He’s leaning on a fence, shirtless and weary. He seems wise near the eyes, but his impatient feet suggest insidiousness. He’s marked with dried mud, and maybe some very deep but quickly-healing cuts – from the tree branches, most likely, or perhaps the birds.

OK, I’m not telling you the whole truth. It was definitely the birds.

Imagine these cuts and scratches, dry and brittle now, but tender to the touch. He is certain he did not offend the birds, but he is uncertain whether his complacency was construed as equal to said offense.

Picture this. Picture the man leaning on the criss-crossing metal wires, waiting. The birds are gone, but other things are coming. He doesn’t know specifically what, but he knows it’ll come for 

.

You know this, too, because I have told you.

The man says nothing.

There’s never not something that has been displaced, marginalized. There’s never not something that, when feeling pressed to the wall, to a place with no room left to run, gathers its numbers, gathers its forces, and turns, savagely, on its oppressor. Turns viciously, and without inhibition, even on those who merely 

 like its oppressor.

Do you catch my meaning? Can you imagine the scene I am explaining?

How much of the world makes sense 

What does it mean to be a hero? To be a 

The man thinks about his heart. It beats. It beats normally. Earlier, it did not beat normally.

Think about your own heart. Is it beating normally?

Listen. I’ll give you a long moment.

How is your heart?

Do you remember the man? The one on the fence, shirtless and scarred, with the normally-beating heart? He’s not real. Take him out of the story, but leave the story. Take him out, leave the story.

Do you catch my meaning?

Do you?

This has been traffic.

And now, a word from our sponsor.

Deep, deep, deep in the grass, grass, grass,

what grows, grows, grows?

Who knows, knows, knows?

Strex.

Strrrrrexxx!

Strrrrrrrrrrrrrrexxxxxx!

StrexCorp Synernists, Inc.

Working hard so you can work harder.

Work harder.

Seriously.

Work.

Harder.

StrexCorp.

Get to work!

More now on the missing children story.

Several helmeted and sunglassed helicopter pilots have stepped forward to announce that they had nothing to do with the missing children.

Sheila Nowitzky, a pilot for one of the many black helicopters that are routinely circling Night Vale, said she’s a harmless spy from the World Government, and would never harm an American child without a direct order.

Marco Padilla, a pilot for one of the many blue Sheriff’s Secret Police copters, said nothing – but you could see in his face he meant no harm to our kids.

And a shadowy haze that claimed, through telepathy, to be the pilot of one of the mysterious helicopters with elaborate murals depicting birds of prey diving, admitted that, while their helicopters were the ones that took away all the children in Night Vale several weeks ago, they brought them back. “They brought them back, OK? And they’re fine. Get off of me!” the humid gray haze emphasized. “God, you take a bunch of kids one time. 

 Geez!”

Listeners, Today I want to talk to you about the dangers of deer.

Are they beautiful? Yes. Are they graceful and picturesque, even borderline majestic beasts? Yes, yes, and yes. And, are they helpful to the community because real estate agents live inside of them? Of course!

But deer are also dangerous creatures. They are terrible, deceitful, and vile animals. I’m not being mean, this is just 

.

Look, I know deer are cute and friendly-looking. We all remember adorable little Bambi, from the classic animated movie, with his sweet voice and white freckled rump. But we also remember the bloody end that he wrought on the humans at the end of the film, the graphic beheadings, and trees streaked with gore during the famous revenge-fueled climax.

The lesson of that movie, as in life itself, is that nature is gorgeous, and it is horrible, and it 

 kill you.

This just in:

Oh my, uh, some disastrous news! Quite terrible! There has been a helicopter crash out by the old Car Lot. Witnesses report hearing youthful shouts and screams, followed by loud metallic clanging. They saw smoke trailing across the cold, dark afternoon sky (because, of course, the sun again did not rise today). They saw a yellow mangle of metal, and rotors, and–

Um, listeners? Daniel is still standing at my studio door. He has stopped staring. He is now yelling, but…without noise. He looks very upset. I can read his lips. He is saying, “Turn it off. Shut it down. No more news today. We are shutting you down?”

They’re going to turn off my microphone, Night Vale!

Um, I’ve locked the door, which will buy me some time while Daniel goes to find a security guard with keys. So let me take you now, for as long as it can last, to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

I wired my phone into the soundboard, and then wired the soundboard into the radio tower, which is running on auxiliary power. It’s, um, a cool trick my childhood best friend Earl Harlan taught me back when we were in Boy Scouts together, earning our Subversive Radio Host badge.

I doubt Daniel, or any of the new station management, can hear me as they do not like listening to radio shows. Also, I’m hiding up on the roof with my makeshift studio.

During the weather, I got word from some witnesses at the helicopter accident. The Sheriff’s Secret Police found several large slingshots and heavy stones nearby that matched, in size and shape, the dents on the helicopter’s engine casing.

They also found a well-worn and heavily-notated copy of Death Comes for the Archbishop by Willa Cather.

Inside the book was a bookmark, marking page 267. On that page was the underlined phrase, “I shall not die of a cold, my son. I shall die of having lived.”

And on the bookmark was a handwritten note. It said, “Your pilot is fine. She is ours now. She will return when she is ready, but she will return better. T.F.”

I do not know if that T.F. Stands for our missing girl – our brilliant, and bold, and missing girl. If station management 

 listening, I, of course, hope we find Tamika Flynn and bring her home safely.

Remember what I said, listeners, about the traffic? About the birds? Think on that. Think on lots of things. Think about heroes, and whether we should even need them.

The answer is, we do not.

I sometimes wish I could tell you more, but I cannot. I cannot tell you everything I think you should hear because it is…boring. Or, it is unnecessary. Or it is 

necessary, but unapproved.

There are many reasons I cannot always tell you what I want to tell you, but the main reason is that you need to find it out for yourself. I could preach, and teach, and shout, and explain, but no lesson is as powerful as the lesson learned on one’s own.

You can do it! You don’t need old Cecil telling you what’s happening in town. No. I just report the news. I just arrange it. 

 figure it out. 

 learn from it. 

 take action. 

 create the meaning. It is all up to 

.

And, given my current broadcasting situation, it may be up to you for a long time.

I’d better get downstairs before they discover what I’m doing. Stay tuned next for silence, self-reflection, and a long pause to hear yourself think.

Use that silence well.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 37 - The Auction


Velvet darkness. Silken light. The rough burlap of evening. The frayed cotton of daybreak.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

First off, welcome back! Everything is fine. Nothing happening, if you know what I mean. You 

 know what I mean. If you 

 know, you should forget. I’m not going to mention anything, and you’re not going to 

anything. And both of us will fail to remember. No one will be named. Nothing will be referenced. And so…

Listeners, today is an exciting and important day in Night Vale. The Sheriff’s Secret Police are holding their annual Auction of Contraband and Seized Property to benefit their purchase of balloons, birthday candles, yellow cake, and a piñata. They hope to raise $7.3 million dollars, and they say the piñata is armored, and will be used to crush rebellions.

Personally, I love the annual auction. You never know what sort of fun stuff might come up. The catalog has so many interesting items! Umm, let’s see…

Lot 1 is an all-clad dinnerware set. Eight pans, in cast aluminum for perfect distribution of heat. New in the package. It’s just waiting for you to season it with a dollop of olive oil and start cooking for friends and family – regardless of how no one comes over anymore after the 

 dinner party, when your mother drank all the Chianti and announced you never lived up to your potential.

At least, that’s what the description of the lot says.

Lot 2 is a glowing coin with the image of a grim, horned god on the obverse, and a half-collapsed panopticon on the reverse. It’s been graded MS-45 by the Sheriff’s Secret Police Coin Grading Service, which in no way colludes with the Sheriff’s Secret Police Auction House to inflate the grade, and thus the value of the coin.

Lot 3 is a silver candelabra that once floated across a series of dining rooms-turned-abattoirs, to better illuminate the flying daggers that accompanied it.

Lot 4 is a set of flying daggers, with maniacally-detailed designs on the shaft collars. Knife collectors and maniacs alike will want to bid on those. Don’t get in the way of that bidding war! Haha.

Let’s see…

There are also carpets, and some mid-century modern furniture. Oh! These are very stylish.

And look! Lot 17 is a near-mint copy of Uncanny X-Men #3, 1964. It has slight foxing on the back cover, perfect registration of the color separations, off-white pages, rustless staples, high cover gloss, and no Marvel chipping, and it features the first appearance of The Blob – not the Blob who lives in the housing development out back of the elementary school, the fictional one.

What else?

Lot 37 is…umm…Cecil Palmer. There is no description.

Listeners, we’ll have more on this auction as it develops.

On the lighter side of the news:

Today, an invincible, all-powerful alien presence with telepathic powers came to Night Vale to enslave us all. It planned to bend every sentient being to its will, ending violence and conflict by subjugating all of us to its omniscient, telekinetic powers. Hilariously, this all-powerful but bumbling alien presence didn’t know we were 

 subjugated to the omniscient force that’s been controlling our thoughts for years! We’re guaranteed to continue our violent and irrational ways, so…in your face, inept newcomer presence!

Toddlers of Night Vale! The Night Vale Community Pre-School invites you to fulfill your potential! Commit to a new and demanding educational curriculum, while exploring your ultimate dream – the same dream that every toddler has: economic opportunity. That’s right! You too can learn to be a chimney sweep. Clean the many, many chimneys of leading citizen – and friendly billionaire – Marcus Vanston. What a 

 man Marcus Vanston is!

Every one of his houses, from his smallest penthouse apartment atop the dirigible hangar, to his 46-room hilltop estate, has multiple chimneys. He has built chimneys even in places where he has no houses, so his well-deserved carbon credits can go to good use. There are numerous chimneys on his shopping mall, his office buildings, his dirigible, his moon rock-plated recreational vehicles, and – due to new and creative laws that allow eminent domain for the 

 Marcus Vanston – every other house in town as well.

He has strapped traveling chimneys onto the pushcarts of festive peddlers, whose rags, hunched shoulders, nagging coughs, and forced tin-whistle merriment accompany the sad antics of their emaciated vest and marching band cap-wearing capuchin monkeys holding tin cups, rattling with a single penny from some defunct, outmoded currency, asking us to contribute to their upkeep, as we turn up our collars, clear our throats, and make convenient excuses to 

 until, instead of embarrassment about their fates, we find our way to feeling superior about our fragile position on the economic ladder.

Marcus Vanston understands. He doesn’t want you to be a lowly peddler! Or a capuchin monkey! He wants you to be a chimney sweep.

So, little ones, lower your standards! Smother your dreams in carbon, and enroll in the Pre-School Chimney Sweep Academy. Make good-old Marcus Vanston happy, for a few brief moments.

An update on our earlier story:

Violence has broken out among bidders in the Sheriff’s Secret Police auction. Bidding has been frantic, and angry. It is confirmed that there has been hair-pulling. Unfortunately, attendees have been using their bidding paddles to slap each other across the face – a motion the auctioneer has been repeatedly mistaking as indication as a new bid. Thus, Lot 1, the all-clad dinnerware set, sold for $175,000 – and that’s before the buyer’s premium.

Listeners, I have been in touch with the auction staff about Lot 37, which is of a certain interest to me. I want Lot 37! I want it badly! I asked if they might take a photograph and send it to me. Well…the peals of laughter that broke out in response were a cross between sleigh bells and the cackles of hunched, gray-faced court jesters. You know how that sounds.

Listeners, in order to learn more about Lot 37, it’s likely I will need to visit the auction myself.

More as it develops.

The Night Vale mayoral race is heating up in preparation for the mayoral election this next June. The Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home has taken to leaving leaflets inside the wiring and pipes of your appliances, to be found when the sparking and the shaking become so much that you must hire, or capture, a repair person.

The leaflets are tastefully designed, with an anatomically-detailed drawing of a sparrow’s heart, and the simple slogan: “You are fragile, and blind, and wanting, and stepping alone into the great darkness of the future.”

It also has her five-point policy platform, which is mostly interesting facts she has learned about bees.

Meanwhile, Hiram McDaniels, in the interest of saving time, has taken to standing on corners giving five different campaign speeches – one with each of his heads. His heads have radically different personalities, and agendas, leading to some discord in their messages. But they all agree that they would like to be elected, that youth sports programs are important, and that the 

 will soon be upon the helpless human race.

Oh! And speaking of the good-hearted and great-walleted Marcus Vanston, he has also thrown his hat into the proverbial ring. He actually constructed a special proverbial ring in the middle of town, with an LCD light display and a fountain with hourly waterspout show, and commissioned a gold-plated hat, with remote-controlled hat launcher, for just that purpose. As the hat flew into the ring, a 40-piece children’s choir sang a song composed for the occasion, titled, “Hi, I’m Running Too, I Guess. Oh, I’m Marcus Vanston, Whatever. Anyway, I’m Going to be Mayor, Thanks.”

Many tears were shed by onlookers – due to civic pride, and some helpful gas Marcus had added to the air supply.

Well, this is starting to look like a mayoral campaign for the ages!

When reached for comment, outgoing mayor Pamela Winchell showed us a collection of mosses, and explained the songs that must be sung to each of them for proper growth.

Hey kids. Ever go walking in the woods and wonder whether a fairy ring of mushrooms is poisonous? Well, look at its center. If there is a body no older than yourself lying there, the ring is perfectly fine. If the body is also screaming, the ring is perfectly fine. 

 is perfectly fine! There is nothing under your bed, there is nothing in your closet. Your parents are, most likely, 

, regardless of what the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home might tell you.

Do not fear the black helicopters, or the black windowless school buses that circle your block at night. You need not be afraid of the bogeyman. There hasn’t been a sighting of a bogeyman for several months – or at least a couple weeks.

And yes, you will die – but probably not until everyone you know is already dead, too. Your parents, your friends, your pets…each death leaving a small but irreparable scar on your not-yet-still, still-beating heart.

The living tell the dying not to leave, and the dying do not listen. The dying tell us not to be sad for them, and 

 do not listen. The dialogue between the living and the dead is full of misunderstanding and silence.

There’s nothing to fear in oblivion – unless, of course, your consciousness survives death. If so, it would be reasonable to fear the sensation of consciousness without senses, suspended alone in the cosmos, with no one to hear you, and no way to make yourself known. No reference point for counting time – a count that does not matter anyway in a literal eternity.

You might wish that you still had a corporeal form, only so that you could make your mouth move to express your terror, to make the universal form of a terrified scream, the form of a letter O. But you won’t be able to. You just won’t!

This has been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner, brought to you by shame, loneliness, and the letter O.

I have been told, listeners, that the auction has descended into chaos. Michelle Nguyen, owner of Dark Owl Records, having bid on a sealed box of Elvis Presley 45s, opened the box to find it was in fact a box of Elvis Presley’s .45-caliber revolvers. The upended box has made bidding much more treacherous.

Mayor Pamela Winchell, interested in Lot 28 – a gently-used 5-cup coffee maker – has begun laying down suppressing fire over the ducked heads of anyone trying to outbid her.

Despite this, I must enter the auction house myself, taking my life into my hands even more than usual.

Lot 37. Cecil Palmer.

I must know. I must bid!

I go now, listeners, to await the crying of Lot 37.

As I go, 

 go, to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Listeners, many complications ensued during my attempt to bid on Lot 37. First, in registering for the auction, I had to indicate my current income – which is made difficult, as our new owners (who I have been asked to stop talking about) are now paying us in scrip, redeemable only at merchants they own, like Dust Hut or the Ralph’s.

Luckily, the Sheriff’s Secret Police turns out to be one of those select merchants. I was able to get a paddle, only moments before the bidding on Lot 37 began.

When confronted with destiny, there are external events to record, yes…but also internal. I would say, time slowed down even more than usual. The edges of the room went blurry, and then went, completely. There was a deep throb of distant machinery that I realized was my own heart propelling inadequate amounts of blood through my parched and aching body. If I did not win Lot 37 I would be…

.

Perhaps I would be unraveled either way. The dull ache I felt was a primal ache of 

, the separation an infant feels when pulled too soon from its mother’s embrace. My cheeks flushed with the irrationality of 

. I 

 Lot 37.

I counted my breaths. I judged myself for wanting, and judged myself wanting. I focused on those parts of my life completely out of my control in order to calm myself down, drowning my fears in pleasant helplessness.

The upshot is, 

. Oh! Oh, foolish Cecil! And through the tears that came then to my eyes, I couldn’t see who won Lot 37 with only one bid!

Winner of Lot 37, if you’re listening, on one hand I wish you good luck with your prize. On the other, I will be using the mightiest bully pulpit of all, community radio, to strike back at you and destroy you!

But also, congratulations. Also that.

I am authorized to tell you that the Sheriff’s Secret Police have declared the auction a resounding success. In celebration, they deployed the piñata to the screams – presumably delighted – of everyone in attendance. The winning bidders walked away grinning, laden down with trinkets and trophies that reassured them with the cleverness of sheer acquisition.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police went on to say that objects are invested with mana, magic power caused by the dangerous ideas of 

 and 

. And holding onto them is our attempt at having something that will never let us down, even though eventually all will.

People leave. Parents leave the room. Lovers leave your life. You leave the world.

We clutch teddy bears first, then dolls, then sports jerseys, and automobiles with hand-sewn leather and excellent gas mileage. As if that were something permanent.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police gave a great cheer in honor of constant decay, and the inevitability of abandonment.

Listeners, accumulating objects is just a way, we hope, to turn back the grim specter of death. Thank you for your participation in this auction, and for your hope that making a certain purchase – all-clad cooking ware, a candelabra, a comic book, a community radio show host – would render you anything more than mortal.

I go now to find myself, or to find who 

 myself, or to find someone that might make me feel better about what has happened today.

I’d take that last one, honestly. I’d take that honest, last one.

And so, dear listeners, and whatever unknown person or entity that is now the owner of Lot 37, I bid you a farewell – the fondness of which is determined by your place relative to mine in my heart.

Stay tuned next for our popular home medical program, 

.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 38 - Orange Grove


You take the good, you take the bad. You take them both, and there you have spiders crawling out of a red velvet cupcake.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

We start today’s show with some exciting agricultural news. John Peters – you know, the farmer? – said his winter orange crop is 

 this year! He said there are oranges everywhere! Delicious clementines, juicy Valencias, rich navels, and bold blood oranges.

John said there are so many oranges, “a real bumper crop,” he said. “A real orange-tacular,” he did 

say. “A real orange-a-thon,” he 

 would have said. “A real orange-ocalypse,” he may have 

, but kept to himself.

John, speaking to a pack of local reporters, and backed by a group of farmers wearing black double-breasted suits and red silk ties, said this is the dawning of a new citrus economy in Night Vale.

John said, “Citrus is our future. Citrus holds the key to prosperity. Citrus holds the key to health. One particular orange here 

 holds the key to a one-sided door in the middle of the desert. If you find that orange,” John said, “I will pay you dearly for it.”

“Or rather,” John corrected himself, “

 will pay dearly for it.”

Then John said, “Either way, whatever. Would love to have that orange, my friend. Would 

 to have that orange. Yessir!” he punctuated. “Or ma’am. Or neither. I mean, whoever. Sure would love to have that orange,” he chuckled while sweating and adjusting his wooden hat.

John then tossed some oranges to the reporters. The reporters caught the oranges, and then began to disappear. And reappear. Blinking in and out of existence, quickly at first, then slowly, then more out of existence than in, until they were all gone.

More on this story as it develops.

The City Council announced today that they 

. They said this in unison, standing in a cramped meeting room, and wearing tiny rectangular sunglasses.

They added that they wish us all the best in our final weeks.

Then, they made the standard American Sign Language “I love you” gesture as smoke filled the room.

Witnesses said the smoke smelled of maple, and was a little briny, but not unpleasantly so.

When the haze cleared, the City Council was still standing in the room, apologizing, claiming, “This usually works.” And then, no longer speaking in unison, casting blame on each other for not believing hard enough, and that if it weren’t for so-and-so they’d all be on a beach somewhere safe from the bears or…whatever those things are.

When asked for an explanation about the bears…or whatever those things are, the Council simply whispered in unison, “

”

No follow-up questions were asked, as reporters became physically and emotionally occupied with the dozens of agitated starlings that began pouring from the air conditioning duct.

You know, listeners, I’ve been thinking about John Peters’ orange grove. I did a little digging online and found that orange trees are 

 to deserts.

I also emailed my boyfriend, Carlos, about this. He’s a scientist, which 

 makes me a scientist, too.

Here’s Carlos’ email back to me just now:

Uhmm, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, Carlos goes on about weekend bowling plans, y– you know what? You don’t need all this.

OK. I think that’s all he had about the orange trees.

I do hope we watch Liberty Valance, though. Ha! I love that film.

And now, a word from our sponsors.

Tired of waiting in line at the Post Office? Scared of the unexplained blood pouring from the P.O. Boxes? Confused by screams that no one else hears? Terrified of leaving your home? Try Stamps.com.

With Stamps.com, you can print your own postage and avoid the long lines and predatory birds so common at the Post Office. You can even have your postal carrier pick up your packages, as long as you are careful never to look the carrier in the eyes, as this is a sign of aggression and you may scare your postal carrier away.

Stamps.com has a special offer for Night Vale Community Radio listeners. Sign up today and receive a bag of magic rocks, $50 worth of self loathing, and a free scale – so you can arbitrarily assign numbers to material objects.

To claim your new member benefits, simply visit Stamps.com, and press your forehead against the radio mic in the upper-right of your screen until your entire body falls forwards into the alternate Stamps.com universe.

Stamps.com will tell your family that Stamps.com loves them very much.

“Come here, family. You are all our family now,” Stamps.com will say, stretching their many boneless arms around your terrified family.

“Come here. We are 

 loving family.”

Stamps.com. You live in a dying world. We love you.

Ladies and gentlemen, we’ve just received word that the Ralph’s is stocked full of fresh orange juice from John’s farm. It’s called J.P.’s OJ, where the O in OJ is a bright cartoonish sun with big pink eyes, and a strained toothy smile; and the J is a sickle the sun is using to slice down ripe oranges from a large tree.

Adam Bayer, weekday shift manager at the Ralph’s, said they have removed all other produce to stock J.P. Oranges, and even emptied out the refrigerators to fully showcase all of J.P.’s mouth-watering stock of fresh juice.

“Even several of the dry goods aisles had to be cleared out,” Adam said, pulling oranges from his apron pockets. He continued pulling oranges from his tiny pocket, mesmerized by their seeming infinitude, and unable to continue speaking as he began to blink out of existence.

Listeners, we here at Night Vale Community Radio need to offer the following correction:

In a previous broadcast, we described the world as “real.”

We indicated, using our voice, that it was made up of many real objects and entities, and we gave descriptions of these disparate parts. We even went so far as to ascribe action and agency to some of these entities.

But, as we all know, nothing can be fully understood to be “real.” Any description of the world we give is simply the world we 

 – which is to say, a narrative we force onto whatever horror or void lies behind the scrim of our perception.

We at the station offer our deepest, most humble apologies for the previous, erroneous, report. We affirm once again that 

is real – including this correction, and least of all, your experience of hearing it.

This has been Corrections.

More now on the orange grove.

Intern Maureen brought it to my attention that until today, John Peters – you know, the farmer? – has been 

 for about four months! Former intern Dana was the last to see him. Unfortunately, we do not know 

 Dana was when she saw him.

We’re also unclear as to 

 Dana was, as time and space seem to not apply to Dana these days. She’s been without a phone charger for about eight months now, and we’re still texting. Also, I’m not sure how she’s been paying her cell phone bill.

Maureen? What is that? Maureen, that’s not a glass of orange juice you’re drinking, is it?

Oh, I see. She got it from our station break room, 

 from the Ralph’s, so it’s 

 safe then.

Oh, well, thank you for the offer, Maureen, but I’m…still working on my coffee. [audibly sips]

Maureen? Is everything OK?

Listeners, Maureen is just…staring at me. Silent. A single bead of sweat running down her left temple. She is staring now at the orange juice. She is biting her upper lip with her lower jaw, and breathing through her nose. Her cheeks are flushing, and she is shaking her head, very…very slightly.

That looks like a “no.”

Is that a “no,” Maureen?

Listeners, I– I think that’s a “no” from Maureen.

Oh! Oh dear! Maureen just flickered. Like, she was there, and then she wasn’t, and then she was, like when a plane flies in front of the sun and the light leaves for a brief moment as you wonder – for just that split second – “Is this it? Is it over?” Only to have the sun return as your brain hears the faint hum of a distant jet and you sigh with relief and disappointment that everything is as it was. A similar thing just happened with Maureen.

Listen–

Maureen, I–

She is backing out of the studio.

She is backing out of the studio.

She has dropped the glass.

She is flickering.

She is flickering…

She is gone.

Listeners, Maureen is gone!

I hear no hum of jets, I– I see no intern, just…an open door. And an empty glass, and a spreading stain.

To the family of Intern Maureen: She was a good intern, with a beautiful puppy, and a chatty neighbor.

She will be missed.

[chime]

Wait– uhh, I just got another email from Carlos, marked URGENT. He says:

Well, now that is–

Listeners? Someone is pounding on the studio door, despite the brightly-lit ON AIR DO NOT DISTURB sign we always put out.

Dear listeners, John Peters just came to visit!

[deep breath]

I should talk with him. Maybe this is a good time for us to go to the wea–

No! Wait! Stop! John? John? No!

[“

” by 

]

Listeners?

Ugh!

Listeners! What a fretful few moments we just had!

John Peters – you know, the 

 – he burst into our studio and tried forcing me to eat an orange. I attempted to reason with him, attempted to talk about our old bowling league, and the wood shop class he used to teach, I even asked him about the hilarious times we used to have standing silent and trance-like in front of the ancient Chalk Spire – predecessor to the current Brown Stone Spire – our mouths frothing, our minds spinning, our ventricles slowing…

But John did not acknowledge any of these fond memories.

As a last resort, with the orange nearing my face and my back pressing hard against the sharp edge of my broadcast table, I grabbed my phone to tell Carlos that if I didn’t make it home tonight, it wasn’t because I didn’t love him, or didn’t want to watch a documentary on special scientific graphs, or was too obsessed with my job to relax and enjoy a good meal and some television, it was only because I was zapped out of existence by a lunatic non-John Peters.

And that, in fact, I 

 love Carlos, and I would want nothing more than to watch a documentary on scientific graphs over some homemade linguini, or to go out to eat again, or 

But then, as I grabbed my phone, I thought, “Eh, that’s 

 too long to write for a text,” so…I just hit John Peters upside the head with it, knocking him unconscious.

And the Sheriff’s Secret Police came to carry the Fake John away, telling me that I didn’t see anything here…but then the StrexCorp-affiliated station management arrived, and asked the Sheriff and his Secret Police to stand down, and that they – the Secret Police – didn’t see anything here, and to move along like nothing happened. The Secret Police nodded and quietly shuffled out of the building, heads facing down at their shoes.

There’s still an empty O.J. Glass on the floor. The carpet around it is dark – not with liquid stain, but…with void.

The spilled juice has taken the rug wherever it has taken Maureen, wherever it has taken the reporters, wherever it probably took the real John Peters – you know, the farmer?

Oh. My producer, Daniel, just gave me a disapproving smile as he handed me this note:

“StrexCorp Synernists Inc., majority shareholder of J.P.’s OJ, Ltd., is recalling all oranges and juices due to…”

And here there’s just a dark red smudge across the words.

“StrexCorp apologizes for any inconveniences, disappearances, lethargy, and/or multiplicity you may have experienced.”

[chime]

Oh, Carlos texted.

And then there’s an emoji of, uh, two dinosaurs chasing an early-80s Ford Mustang up a palmetto-lined suburban street as some residents look on, shocked and scared – a few laughing – others undisturbed as they mow their lawns or sculpt their fruit-shaped topiary bushes, oh man.

Oh, that’s very cute!

Listeners, let me release my own special announcement.

Cecil Palmer would like to not be late for dinner.

Stay tuned next for an hour that will feel like minutes but will, in actuality, take weeks.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 39 - The Woman from Italy


Flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. The second-safest is dreaming. The third-safest is decomposing into rich earth and drifting away with the wind and rain.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello, listeners. Welcome to this, another day. Or, you were already in this day, and my voice is now joining you. Perhaps 

 should be welcoming 

.

I’d like to take this moment to update you about the misbehaving child, Tamika Flynn.

She has been witnessed with her army of missing children, sabotaging any business owned by StrexCorp – which is getting to be most of them at this point.

The White Sand Ice Cream Shop isn’t…there are probably others. They should 

 be proud of this.

Tamika was last seen leading her army through the Ralph’s, shouting to all witnesses that “We are here! We are the beating heart! We are the breathing lungs! We are the lips that chant!” before erecting a blood stone circle in the produce section, in direct defiance of StrexCorp’s recent ban on bloodstone manufacture and use.

This was 

 of her, and it is my duty to condemn her act of extreme civic pride and heroism. Which is also wrong. Everything was incorrect, and 

, and should not be celebrated or reported on.

Listen. Listening is dangerous. Talking? More so. Things aren’t looking so good for quiet existence, either.

In an unrelated report, yellow helicopters have continued to disappear from their place in the sky, along with the pilots who were presumably inside. The helicopters are disappearing almost as fast as our beneficent sponsors, StrexCorp, can supply them.

StrexCorp management released a series of flares from the darkened horizon which spelled, in Morse code, “We love your enthusiasm for our products, but those helicopters are for your own good and productivity. Please, stop taking them. Don’t make us ask again, or we will have to do a number of 

 things with your human form.”

Also, and I don’t even know why I’m bringing this up, there was a new woman drinking coffee at the Moonlite All-Nite Diner this morning. She smiled twice, and frowned once. And her fingers tapped out a rhythm. There was nothing unusual about the rhythm. She ordered a second coffee, she–

…and ate the last of her eggs. Nothing more to report on the woman at this time. I don’t even know why I reported what I just did.

The Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency would like to address the lights and sounds seen in the Scrublands just off Route 800 yesterday.

Many townspeople reported seeing a great craft alight on the ground, and disgorge spindly creatures of enormous size, wavering up into the darkness with limbs that’s angle and attachment met none of the criteria of human biologic knowledge.

The Agency would like to inform you that what you mistook for the Scrublands was actually your grandmother’s house, that what you mistook for a great craft was your grandmother – with whom you have a tense, but ultimately loving, relationship. And what you mistook as enormous spindly creatures were the words you and your grandmother exchanged – pleasantries and reminiscence to avoid discussing all the hurt that lies behind you, and the ultimate ending to your shared past that is foreshadowed by her every forgetful moment. Every tremble in her hand.

“There is no such thing as aliens!” says the Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency. “Your grandmother is dying. And so are you. You have this in common, celebrate it!”

A memo from the owner of the Ace Hardware on Fifth and Shay Street:

They will no longer tolerate baristas lining up for day jobs in their parking lot. Every morning at dawn, dozens of baristas with newsboy caps, waxed mustaches, and knit ties tucked into buttoned sweater-vests continue to crowd the parking lot, foreheads beaded with desperation, and hoping to be picked up to operate unlicensed espresso machines. This is scaring away the legitimate Ace hardware customers, and the baristas will be required to return to their caves just on the outskirts of town, near the Sand Wastes, in the Barista District.

Oh! Some great news to all of you out there who adopted kittens from Khoshekh, the cat floating in our station bathroom. Well, it’s been several months, and the kittens have just been growing like you wouldn’t believe! They’ve molted twice, and some of them are already getting their grownup kitty spine ridges!

Which brings me to my grave warning:

As we all know, the spine ridges of adult cats are highly poisonous. If you are coming to see a kitten that you have adopted, it is important that you check for the location and severity of the spine ridge before attempting any petting.

Also, 

. A few of them have developed their venom sacs. We lost two cat adopters already this months, so…let’s just be careful, people.

And, let’s take care of these cute little kitties! Who’s my adorable little kitten with your adorable tendril hub? It’s you! 

I’m not even sure why I bring this up, but the new woman is wandering down Main Street, checking out the various knick-knack stores and antique shops and chanting dens and food wallows that have been springing up with all this new money flooded into Night Vale from one single, uncomfortably efficient source.

She is window shopping, but hasn’t found one she likes yet. Bay windows, stained glass, a car window taken from a 1983 Honda Odyssey, she bought none of them! She gnaws softly on the side of her thumb, she–

…sang an impromptu song to the delight of everyone who heard her.

No one heard her.

And now, traffic.

Think of a number. Any number. That number is how many thousands of years old a certain rock is.

That number is how many times someone has cried in their life.

That number is the lucky number of an unlucky man who is yet to realize he is unlucky.

Think of a number. No, think of…numbers.

Picture all of these abstract representations of human thought, all of them forming an imagined pattern, as all patterns are imagined, and picture how those abstractions describe, in specific ways, real moments that exist.

Picture numbers.

There is a woman who lives at 531 Beachwood Street. Her phone number starts with a 3 and ends with a 5. She smiled 18 times yesterday. She is currently thinking of 3 things she needs to do. There are actually 

 things she needs to do. She has forgotten 1 of them.

She touches the doorknob 2 times before committing to its turn. She has 2 eyes. She has 2 hands. She has 2 more chances to make her life what she thinks it should be.

But she doesn’t know it yet.

Think of a number.

Yes! That’s the one! That’s the one that describes an infinity of disparate truths about our disparate universe.

Also, the roads are looking clear.

This has been traffic.

And now, a word from our sponsors.

Filler text to be replaced with actual material. Replace with copy before sending to radio station.

Talking points go here.

Then, slogan goes here.

Starbucks.

Copy and paste slogan again here.

Also, just reminding the future me that comes back to rewrite this that I need to grab some milk. I think the one in the office fridge is starting to turn.

As long as I’m reminding myself things, I’m a good person, worthy of love – both from myself and others. And writing press releases and ads like this is just the start of a great writing career.

You have a novel in you, kid! You have a novel in you!

This has been a word from our sponsors.

In economic news, the White Sand Ice Cream Shop has gone out of business, and will never open again.

The owners, Lucy and Hannah Gutierrez, have gone bankrupt and, as is usual for bankruptcy cases, have had their lives confiscated by the nearest friendly large business – which, in this case, was StrexCorp.

“We were only too happy to help,” StrexCorp carved into a large slab, uncovered this morning out in the Sand Wastes, and dated to several thousand years ago by reputable scientists and experts.

The carving continued, “Lucy and Hannah are valuable members of this community, and now their value has been added to 

 value. We are even more valuable now. Everyone wins! Even if it seems like some of the 

 are gone, or absorbed, or dead. This is just part of the natural process of winning.”

Archaeologists were baffled when presented with the content of the carving and evidence of its age, saying that just moments ago they were working in a museum in Los Angeles, and they have no idea where they are or how they were so suddenly brought here.

“Let us go home,” they said to the person presenting the carving. “Please! Let us go home!”

In a story that will interest no one, the new woman is sitting on a bench in Mission Grove Park, reading an old paperback copy of a book apparently called 

. Her hair flutters a bit in the breeze. She turns a page in the book, she crosses her legs as she leans back and relaxes into the story she is reading. She–

[“

” by 

]

Welcome back, listeners!

Usually, after the weather, I am here to tell you about how we have been saved from some world-ending danger – that, for whatever reason, has failed again to end our world.

But today, I have no such report, because there is no such danger. Or, there is an 

 of such dangers. Rocks hurdling unseen from space, gamma ray bursts created by chance and utterly destroying by chance, disease, war, hunger, or the slow dissipation of it all – not by the sudden, but by the gradual 

.

But now is not the time for such light-hearted childish thoughts. Now is the time for me to talk.

Umm, let’s see. What can I talk about?

Ah! Well, that new woman! The one I have been, for some reason, reporting on, she is leaving town. She has bought a Razor Scooter from the pawn shop, and is using it to skim her way down the shoulder of Route 800. Destination – and origin – both unknown. But we know where she is 

.

Good for us!

Any information is impressive in such an opaque world.

Cars honk and swerve, there are a few accidents, a man gets out of his car and looks at his bumper, fists on his hips, his mouth half opened, saying, “Well what is this now? Well what is this now?”

The woman does not seem to hear him – or anything else.

She is skimming slowly out of town, her hand raises, it waves goodbye, her shoulders bounce slightly with the imperfections of the road. She turns to look back, and we all see her face and we..

We…

Episode 4 - PTA Meeting


The sun has grown so very, very old. How long cold, fading death? How long?

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Our top story:

Last night’s Night Vale PTA meeting ended in bloodshed as a rift in space-time split open in the Main Street Recreation Center Auditorium, setting loose several confused and physically aggressive pteranodons. The glowing portal remained open and shrieked incessantly, an unholy sound that witnesses say resembled noisy urchin children caught in a combine harvester, and then slowed down and amped up through some kind of open source, easy-to-use audio editing software.

The pteranodons mostly attacked women with glasses. Authorities are still unsure why, as Night Vale’s only flying dinosaur expert, Joel Eisenberg, still has not recovered from last year’s bout with throat spiders.

It took most of an hour to corral the panicked beasts back into the vortex and resume the meeting, which had mostly been upon recent lunchroom price hikes, and had devolved into name calling because Susan Willman called Diane Crayton’s son Josh “a bit tubby,” and that “maybe he needs a financial incentive to eat less.”

In this reporter’s opinion, Susan Willman is dangerously obsessed with the New York Times best-selling Freakonomics books. Dangerously so.

Fortunately, no one was injured or killed in the incident, although experts from Timothy’s Auditorium Repair Contractors Inc. estimates close to $750,000 in damage has been done to the Rec Center Auditorium. And that cost includes free storm windows and a complementary seasonal installation consultation.

It’s election season again, and you know what that means! Sheriff’s Secret Police will be coming by to collect certain family members so that everyone votes for the correct council seats and there’s no confusion. These family members will be held in a secure and undisclosed location, which everyone knows is the Abandoned Mine Shaft outside of town.

But, don’t let the name fool you, listeners: it’s been used for years for so many kidnappings and illegal detentions that the Abandoned Mine Shaft outside of town is actually a pretty nice location these days, featuring king-sized beds, free wifi, and HBO. 

The Night Vale Daily Journal today announced that due to the recent economic downturn, they will start running ads on the front page. Any business interested in running one of these Platinum Premium ads should contact editor Leann Hart.

Hart mentioned that they have also created a “Write Your Own News Story” program for interested citizens. Because every writer has been laid off, the Daily Journal now needs these community contributions to supply Night Vale with important news and features.

The first Platinum Premium ad runs next Monday and features the terrified face of an infant primate with a superimposed spoon that has been stone-sharpened to a rough point, and the tagline “Better use Tide.”

Hart also said that last year’s explosion that decimated the Daily Journal’s distribution plant is still totally an accident, and would like her insurance rep to call her back. Please. Call her back.

This just came across the wire:

The Secret Police have issued a new statement shedding more light onto last night’s PTA meeting incident. The noisy portal and subsequent dinosaur attack that brutally interrupted discussion of swing set repairs on the elementary school playground stayed open long after Recreation Center employees thought they had rounded up all of the ancestral avian beasts, and authorities warn that there is still at least one more pteranodon on the loose.

Citizens should cover themselves with a low-SPF sunscreen and hide in a tiled bathroom.

Several curious handball players in the court next to the auditorium actually popped their heads into the portal – just to see what was on the other side of the vortex – and came back dramatically changed. The players aged several thousand years in what bystanders experienced as only a few seconds. 

Since psychological and emotional damages are no longer considered valid claims by the greater medical insurance community, we are still reporting zero injuries.

We’ll update you as further details surface in our special ongoing and very special coverage of Pteranodon Attack-Gate.

Are we safe from dinosaurs? No way.

City Council has asked me to read the following message:

If you notice strange auras around any of the following objects in your house: blender, shower head, dog, husband, wife, table, chair, doorknob, baseboard, vacation souvenirs or photos, collectibles of any kind (especially those depicting or involving horses), DVDs (especially Cliffhanger, There’s Something About Mary, and The Wire 4th season), and any bagged lettuce from California or Mexico, please, report to the Council for indefinite detention.

Speaking of the City Council, it voted this week to remove the large lead-plated door from the northeastern-most crook of Radon Canyon – you know, the area pulsing with green light and sotto voce basso humming.

Proponents of the measure called the large yellow emblem and red lettering that spelled out:

…were, at worst, an offensive eyesore and, at best, a hacky sci-fi cliche.

Many Night Vale citizens attended the meeting including, it was said, several angels – although no angel is admitted to have been present for the City Council meeting…or any other event ever, for that matter.

Old Woman Josie agreed with the measure, adding that lead is a health hazard, and that the old door was nothing but a ticking time bomb. According to the meeting minutes, Josie said, “That old door. Oooh, that door! Someone’s gonna get some kind of lead poisoning!”

Carlos, beautiful Carlos, tragically shorn of his locks, reportedly was the only dissenting voice. But it is not clear he actually opposed the measure, as the minutes only report him stating, “There is no time. No more time,” into a black rectangle in his hand, and then running, winded, from the Community Hall.

According to Old Woman Josie, he was still absolutely perfect, and smelled of lavender chewing gum.

More breaking news on the pteranodons. 

Secret Police are now reporting that the offending beasts were not pteranodons after all, but pterodactyls.

Also, pteranodons aren’t even dinosaurs as this station previously stated – just winged reptiles that lived about 70 million years after pterodactyls.

Finally, earlier we reported a death toll of zero when, in fact, the number is closer to 38.

We regret these errors.

It’s almost football season, and the Night Vale Scorpions are gearing up for a defense of the high school division title. 

And now, an editorial.

Let’s talk for a moment about apartment building etiquette. Now, I myself live in an apartment building, and there is a compassion and acceptance you have to have for a certain level of annoyance. It’s people in close proximity to each other, and so there will be some things that you don’t like, and still have to let go.

But other things are absolutely unacceptable!

For instance, a certain level of strange radiating light or heat on shared walls is expected, but any oozings or visible membranes are rude and thoughtless to all of your neighbors. Gibbering, howling, and chants in long-dead languages are the kind of thing that is 

 at 1:00 PM, but absolutely 

 at 1:00 AM.

We are all in this together.

Put your trash in the cans, not in the hallway leading 

 the cans. Put on some clothes when standing in front of your windows, and keep any rituals or crazed experiments to hours in which no one is trying to sleep.

It doesn’t have to be hard.

We have a very unexpected treat today, dear listeners. Live in the studio we have one of the mysterious Hooded Figures often seen around town. We did not actually invite him here, he just was waiting for us when we unlocked the studio this morning. He has not moved, nor spoken since then, and I’ll be honest: I am only guessing that “he” is a he, because physical attributes are hard to determine under these robes, and the face is entirely hidden in shadow as empty and as black as the void of space.

But hey, we’re doin’ radio! He’s in a radio station. Let’s see if we can get an interview.

Mr. Hooded Figure, how are you doing today?

Listeners, I’m sure you can here this. It’s not a problem with your radio or our transmitters. The Hooded Figure is making those noises in our studio. It’s pretty deafening, actually.

Alright! I don’t think he’s going to stop, and he’s started to levitate, so, let’s go to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Ladies and Gentlemen, we have just received word from Secret Police that the rip in space-time that opened at last night’s PTA meeting has been sealed at last. The final missing pterodactyl has been returned to its own timeline in either prehistoric or alternate-universe Night Vale.

The creature’s lifeless body was found a dozen yards outside of the Dog Park entrance, stripped of all flesh, and with most of the organs inverted and strung around its exposed skull like an old fashioned soft meats crown, as worn by the 18th century religious leaders who settled our fair burgh.

The dinosaur’s body was returned to the vortex, the gateway closed, and the PTA meeting rescheduled for next Tuesday at 6:00 PM. That meeting will continue to address the important issue of backpacks, and whether or not they are causing autism.

There will also be a memorial service for the 38 parents and teachers who lost their lives in the attack – f

City Council and Secret Police have issued a reminder that Night Vale citizens of all species and all geologic eras are not to enter, look at, or think too long about the Dog Park. This reminder, they say, is completely unrelated to anything that may or may not have happened today.

Coming up next, stay tuned for our one-hour special, “Morse Code for Trumpet Quintets.”

And listeners, Night Vale is an ancient place, full of history and secrets – as we were reminded today. 

Episode 40 - The Deft Bowman


The riddle says, “He walks on four legs in the morning. He walks on two legs at midday. And at night, he slithers from dream to dream effortlessly, like the air we breathe. And we love him.”

Welcome to Night Vale. 

In response to our town’s steadily-declining tourism industry, the Night Vale Tourism Board addressed our town’s complete lack of appealing destinations – like uncensored art museums, hotels with door locks, and snake-free restaurants. NVTB Executive Director Madeline LeFleur said some travelers think they need to “see things, like monuments, or the majesty of nature, or spectacular musicals, or eat regional/cultural foods in order to have a good time on vacation. But they don’t!”

“You don’t need attractions to have a good time!” she added. “Just use your imagination! In fact, come to Night Vale, where ‘we will show you fun in a handful of dust,’ as the new NVTB slogan says!”

LeFleur then became transfixed by the midday sun. “There it is again!” she whispered to a confused crowd. “It’s beautiful! So beautiful! Why do you think it keeps circling back like that?”

Good news, listeners! The telephone service has finally fixed the telephone booth behind the Taco Bell! The telephone that was always ringing and never had a dial tone? You know the one. When you picked it up it clicked, and hissed, and 

 played notes that seemed to come from a music box. You did not recognize the tune, but…it was familiar, as if from another time and place.

Since no one 

 telephone booths anymore, I’m not entirely sure why they did this, but the telephone booth is working!

The telephone service dispatched a crew of men who would not be missed. They wore wooden suits, climbed up the nearby pole, and clattered around like so many bamboo wind chimes filled with hamburger. After several hours, they climbed down, furtively smoking cigarettes, and departed in their unmarked black van, removing the OUT OF ORDER sign from the booth shortly before leaving.

Some say they’ve seen strangers of varying heights and aura magnitudes speaking into the telephone in a hushed tone, in words that might have been Russian, staring at the horizon with cold determination. And as the strangers all departed quickly, all in separate pedicabs, witnesses reported a detached human hand crawling up the inside of the booth.

Was this lone visitor to the phone booth the young Megan Wallaby? Megan was born as a detached hand of an adult man, so…it seems like this was probably she who slowly, but desperately, picked up the telephone as the sun began to set. We may never know for certain, but at least we know the telephone you’ll never bother to use is working again.

Ah! Speaking of telecommunication, listeners, I’ve been receiving some odd text messages. My phone claims they are from former intern Dana, who was trapped in the Forbidden Dog Park several months ago and is now traversing an unknown plane of space and/or time.

Here are some recent texts from her:

And then no more texts. And it’s been several days. I tried texting back but my touch screen just displayed a photograph of my face that began to slowly rot, the eyes deepening until they were sunken holes, long white hair growing rapidly, insects crawling from my slackened, decayed maw, and then the words “UNDELIVERED TEXT” in all caps below it.

I decided…

this conversation was one not meant to be.

More good news, listeners! A submarine has arrived from Nulogorsk, a tiny fishing village in Russia. Nulogorsk was a long-time sister city of Night Vale. We shared pen pal letters and gifts for many years. But, beginning in 1983, Nulogorsk stopped changing the dates on their letters. By 1997, it became apparent that Nulogorsk would never stop existing in 1983. And without being able to openly discuss the complexities of Michael Jackson’s career arc, Night Vale stopped corresponding.

So, for this single reason, and 

, the arrival of a Nulogorskian submarine in our desert was unexpected.

The Night Vale PTA and the management of the local Pinkberry released a joint statement, saying “The arrival of the submarine from Nulogorsk may represent a renewal of long-ago international hostilities, caused by simple misunderstandings over how to use a calendar properly.”

Seeking to allay these concerns, the Sheriff’s Secret Police’s genderless spokesbeing, with the smoothly beautiful features, explained in that voice that calms animals:

“Decades ago, when you were a child and lived beside the sea, you would go down in the afternoon and stand in the water, warm as blood, and pluck clams from between the rocks. Your grandfather would cook them over his stove until they opened, and you would listen to the radio together. The ships would come in the afternoon, piled high with cod and herring, surrounded by seagulls, carrying tales of adventure and peril in the sloshing boots of every fisherman.

“Some things don’t come back,” the spokesbeing continued. “They can only travel in one direction, like mountains travel through the centuries. Yes, mountains. You were with Grandfather when the voice on the radio rose an alarm. Grandfather stood up. There was fear upon the monument of his face. This was not supposed to happen. Not here.

“Do you remember the light, so bright you could see it through the wall? Then nothing. Then dark, and a ringing telephone. But we are here, and now, and this is not there and then,” concluded the Sheriff’s spokesbeing.

The spokesbeing responded to followup questions by cocking their head and slowly blinking their milk-glass eyes, like an animal watching an insect crawl across the floor.

Further inquiries were directed to the jade statue of a cat who hums almost inaudibly in the Sheriff’s Secret Police’s Secret Garden.

The Secret Police plan to open the hatches of the submarine and look inside at any moment. We’ll report back as we learn more.

Listeners, many of you know I have a bit of a delicate relationship with our new station management. And recent events have caused some concern for many of you. But, rest assured, while management and artists are often at odds about how to run a business, here at the station we all have one thing in common: We 

 radio.

I just met our new program director, Lauren Mallard. And you know, she’s a delight! In fact, she’s joining me in the studio right now. I thought it would be a good time to introduce you to the kindest, most gentle manager we have ever had at this station.

Lauren, it’s great to have you here!

Aww, thank you. Listeners, please know that I really do think things are looking up. I’m really excited about the new direction we’re under with Lauren!

Ummmmmmm…..Carlos?

Oh, uhh, okay. Well, thank you, Lauren! Goodbye.

And now a public service announcement from the Night Vale Marine Biologists Association:

“The ocean is full of things that would like to kill you. And other things that would ignore or not understand you, and then eventually kill you. Because they do not have the same understanding or valuation of life and death as humans. There are still other things that 

 would probably kill, simply because you think they are beautiful, and you want to possess beautiful things because you believe that beauty and sentience are mutually exclusive.

“Never go to the ocean. It is a confounding place. It is full of death, and strife, and terror. We’re marine biologists, and 

 won’t even go to an ocean, so you know it’s bad,” the PSA reads.

“Maybe just take a nap and think about clouds until they find your body.”

This has been a message from the Marine Biologists Association.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police have opened the hatch of the submarine from Nulogorsk. Onlookers describe a curious crack of pressure, as if peeling back the pop top of a can of old soda, and a smell of something regurgitated.

Wisps of steam were observed to rise from the opened submarine. The Sheriff’s Secret Police drew their daggers and a Junior Secret Detective was encouraged to volunteer to be the first to explore the vessel.

There was silence as she climbed through the hatch.

Gentle listeners, the screaming began almost immediately. It was described as a sort of high-pitched shriek that deepened moment by moment, until it was only an agonized moan, then rising back up in pitch again, then falling.

Onlookers remarked that they had never quite heard a scream like that before – not even that time in the barn.

The Junior Secret Detective reappeared after those few harrowing moments, but she was not the woman who went inside the submarine. Her hair was long, and gray, and her limbs were withered with age. She tumbled out of the hatch, and was taken off to the hospital where she is listed in ancient condition, though expected to fully recover.

Further volunteers discovered the body of an enormous bald-headed man, with some faded flower tattoos, and a left arm that stopped in a rough stump just above his wrist.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police also discovered a postcard, depicting the painted houses and beautiful clear water of Nulogorsk. Written on the back was a message, in Russian:

“One adult man. Missing hand. And the other items,” it read, according to Google Translate.

The other items in question included a rotary-dial phone with no receiver cord, a large tin full of hardtack, a wrapped parcel (which was carried away by a man who was not tall), a thick book (which was carried away by a man who was not short), and a front page article from the September 24th, 1983 issue of the Night Vale Daily Journal, written by Foreign Correspondent Leann Hart. The headline of this article was:

Listeners, this is simply not true! I had intern Svee pull up that very issue, and the front page article is by City Beat reporter Leann Hart, and the headline reads:

Which is the truth, listeners? I cannot comprehend what has happened to our old pen pals from Nulogorsk! Who were we talking to for all those years? Were they destroyed in 1983? I’m going to get Svee’s article to the Secret Police. The correct historical truth must be validated, and all false histories brutally repressed.

And until that time, the only truth we will have is the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Well, before the Sheriff’s Secret Police could respond to my news article discrepancy, the unconnected rotary phone on the submarine began ringing.

The unidentified man in the submarine answered the phone, speaking his first words – in Russian, of course. He still has yet to be identified, and no one is certain if he is a survivor or a ghost. But he spoke to someone on the other end.

“Trace the call!” an officer shouted to a group of other officers in a nearby van.

Listeners, they traced the call. And it was coming from the phone booth behind the Taco Bell.

On the other end of the line was an adult man’s detached hand named Megan, the daughter of Tak and Herschel Wallaby.

She was alone. All alone – except for the telephone booth, as forgotten technologies have been young Megan’s only friends.

This broke the heart of the Sheriff’s Secret Police.

This broke the heart of the two men who had skulked away from the submarine.

This broke the heart of the unidentified man from Nulogorsk.

And from this moment came wonderful news, listeners. The unidentified man told the Secret Police in stiff, but practiced, English, “I am a gift from Nulogorsk, in appreciation of Night Vale’s many years of friendship and kindness.”

And the unidentified man offered himself as an organ donor…or rather, a body donor for Night Vale’s very own Megan Wallaby. The young girl, born with congenital hand-bodiness, was rushed from the telephone booth behind the Taco Bell. The unidentified man has been rushed from the submarine in the Sand Wastes. Megan has been surgically attached to the wrist stump of the unidentified man – or, rather, the unidentified man has been surgically attached to the single hand body of Megan Wallaby.

Megan’s surgeons have declared the operation a quick and complete success. After emerging from recovery, Megan even rose from her bed, her face dour, and took a few toneless steps – like a man balancing the weight of a wet overcoat on a failing hanger – before collapsing onto the floor of her hospital room while nurses screamed and called for help.

Megan has a long road of therapy ahead of her, learning how to…

. But, we believe in her, don’t we Night Vale?

That little girl is going to enjoy the childhood she feels she has missed out on. We won’t mind if she smashes through a few walls, or crushes a few rib cages in hugs. If this is what she wants, we will support her, because she is beautiful.

And the unidentified man from Nulogorsk? Sadly, we will never see him again. Nor may we ever learn why his truth was so different from our own.

But Megan’s truth…is. She is finally happy. Happy in the body she was born without.

Maybe one day, we will see her: six foot ten, and bald, shambling down the street. We will say, “Hello, Megan!”

And maybe, with enough hard work, she will be able to answer back in the sing-song voice of a child, “Hello, Cecil!” as she jauntily waves the hand that used to be her entire body.

Yes, Night Vale, that sounds just about right.

Stay tuned next for live coverage of college basketball, as two universities select a dozen students to perform unnatural physical tasks on a wooden rectangle inside a cavernous scream chamber.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 41 - WALK


At a loss for words? Here’s a few you can use:

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello, listeners. We have some news that will affect your morning commute, so let’s dive right into it.

WALK signals across the whole of Night Vale are malfunctioning. Of course, usually they show either a graphic photo of a run-over pedestrian, indicating you should wait, or time-lapse photography of flowers wilting, indicating that it is safe to cross. But this morning, commuters all over Night Vale are reporting that, bafflingly, they now all have just the word “WALK” in bold, white letters.

Citizens are standing by the side of the road, unsure of whether they are allowed–

–unable to stop walking. WALK, the signals say. And the pedestrians walk. In unison. Arms swinging in a rigid rhythm.

This is the worst malfunctioning of WALK signals Night Vale has seen since the time all their light bulbs were accidentally replaced with poison gas dispensers.

More on this story as it looms closer to us.

And now, a word from our sponsors.

A balding grassland beneath a low cliff side.

There is a monk.

Picture what a monk looks like.

A bell rings. From his hand, maybe. Then he takes a small step. Then there’s that bell again.

It will take him a long time to make it from this bit of grass to whatever there is beyond it. An entire lifetime it will take him. And even then, he will die unfinished. Undone in midst of doing, having gone slowly to nowhere much.

Then a bell will ring. From his hand, maybe. Or from somewhere else.

And then, nothing.

Mountain Dew.

Do the Dew.

And now, back to ou–

–which I haven’t done, by the way, in years! Or, at least, days. Or at least, I’m not doing it right now!

Thursday is a lost cause, but we will keep on fighting. We will get up, say “Yes! Today is a different day than before!” believing this against all evidence, eating food like that matters. Going to jobs that mean the same thing as they did before, but cast in a new light by our own optimism, which will slowly drain away until all that is left is the movements and thoughts we’ve had before. Echoes of ourselves, underlined to emphasize the lack of emphasis.

Coming home, 

 home. Aimless homeward wandering into a kitchen that is too small for our needs, and eating food that isn’t what we imagined it would be. And watching television that means more to us than our jobs. And, finally, falling asleep – in which we dream of the Thursday that could be…if only we lived Thursday to the full potential of its Thursday-ness, not expecting it to be anything but Thursday, embracing every inch of its Thursday reality, and living each Thursday moment anew, only to wake the 

 Thursday, and again impose, unsuccessfully, our 

 Thursday onto the unyielding frame of Thursday. 

 Thursday. A lost cause.

This has been the Community Calendar.

The crowd amassed by the WALK signals is now marching down Route 800, apparently advancing on City Hall. When reached for comment, the City Council said that they were 

 at City Hall, ready to receive the concerns of their constituents, and 

, say, hiding in a hastily-dug hole in Mission Grove Park, keeping as still as possible, and breathing through their dirt gills until this all blows over.

“Incidentally,” their comment continued, “if you happen to see a conspicuous pile of earth in any parks, maybe just…throw some leaves on it, or put a bench over it, to make it less obvious. No biggie, just if you get a chance, that’d be cool,” the Council concluded, their voices noticeably muffled.

Fortunately, the effect of the WALK signals only reaches those who are looking at one, and I myself…hey, what–

How did that get in here?

Umm, listeners, there is a WALK signal in my studio. “WALK,” it says.

I must walk. The signal is saying so.

I will have to leave my desk in order to do that.

And so, before I go, I take you to the WALK-ther…the WeALtKher. The WALK. WALK. WALK. W–

[“

” by 

]

And so, we are all saved again!

I’ll be honest, Night Vale, that was the most worried I’ve been in some time.

And how we were saved was 

 unlikely and miraculous, that I feel that today will become one of the standard tales told every year on Frightening Day.

Certainly, it is a story I will 

 forget.

Here is where I leave you. Not to walk away…I think I will avoid walking for a while. But certainly to go somewhere, to see someone.

And I don’t know…if he 

 a walk, I might change my mind. He can be as persuasive as hypnotic malfunctioning city equipment sometimes, as the old saying goes.

Stay tuned next for the noises of my hurried retreat, echoing first as sound, and then as memory. And maybe, then again, as part of tonight’s fractured dreaming.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 42 - Numbers


I sing the body electric. I gasp the body organic. I miss the body remembered.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Even as much of town has been in flux, listeners, there is also much that has remained solid.

It’s hot here, for instance. It’s a desert.

There are still lights in the sky above the Arby’s, and we still understand them.

The sun is still rising – and setting – loudly…on most days.

But, nearest and dearest to my heart, among all the constants in life, is WZZZ, our local numbers station, broadcasting from that strange and tall antenna built out back of the Abandoned Gas Station on Oxford Street. It still broadcasts a monotone female voice reading out seemingly random numbers, interspersed with chimes, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

No transfer in ownership of most of the town, nor unrest in the streets, nor declared war by a tiny civilization under a bowling alley could change how it operates.

Until, well…until today.

It 

.

Here, listen.

At which point the broadcast ceased. It has been silent since.

What does this mean? Where did the numbers go?

We reached out to the management of WZZZ for comment, but then realized we still have no idea who manages it.

So we reached out in general, directing questions out into the still of today – at suspicious birds, at passers-by checking their phones, at ourselves, hunched over breakfasts that, every time, we swear will be early and leisurely, but always end up late and meager.

No one has provided any comment.

We will continue to monitor the situation.

As her term approaches its end, Mayor Pamela Winchell has taken to calling emergency press conferences as much as five times a day, up from the usual one or two.

Her most recent one involved her showing attending reporters slides of renaissance-era portraits while explaining, “Health is very important. Remember exercise. Think back on times that you’ve moved, or expended energy. Also remember eating. Recall food, and what it was like. Remember sleep. Reminisce about rest. Drink plenty of water, but leave some water in case of fire.”

She then slumped onto the rough-hewn speaker’s podium.

“I’m going to miss this,” she whispered, not speaking at anyone in particular.

“I’m just…going to 

 this.”

She ended the conference by popping hundreds of orange balloons, methodically, and with her back turned to the audience. But, despite this big finish, onlookers commented that her heart no longer seemed to be in such showy political stunts.

What is next for our beloved mayor, who is stepping down in just three months’ time?

What is next for 

 of us?

Death, presumably. With some stuff before that.

I look forward to it!

And now, a word from our sponsor.

Today’s sponsor is Hulu.com.

Hulu.

Let’s talk about watching things. Let’s talk about watching, rather than 

 watching. Let’s think about talking about watching a second-hand experience. Let’s continually abstract ourselves from what we believe is the world.

Hulu.

The pulsing life of your body is an undeniable fact! But deny it anyway. Looking for the answers to all of life’s problems? We recommend obstinate denial. Accept no substitute. Accept 

.

Hulu.

Water circles the drain of our planet, always coming back for one more go to see if, this cycle, it will be different. It will 

 be different. The sky will break open, and water will fall, one more time.

One more time.

Hulu.

The terror you feel in quiet moments is not misplaced, just mistimed.

Hulu.

Huuluu.

Huuuluuu.

Huuuuluuuu.

Huuuuuluuuuu

Huuuuuuluuuuuu.

Huuuuuuuluuuuuuu.

Huuuuuuuuluuuuuuuu.

Huuuuuuuuuluuuuuuuuu!

Hulu.com! Sign up now, and get the latest episode of [screeching/feedback sound]!

An update on our earlier story:

Local numbers station WZZZ has resumed its transmission, although the format is a little…umm…

 than before.

Take a listen:

We don’t know what this means, or why it is happening, I 

 say, referring to anything in the world, although in this case I am referring specifically to the broadcast from our friendly local numbers station, which has recently so radically changed its format.

More on this, as we develop understanding.

Oh! I almost forgot to mention: I got another email from our former intern, Dana.

She’s doing her best to keep away from the Mountain and the Blinking Light Up On it.

Of course, she keeps finding herself coming back to it anyway. But, like anyone who grew up in Night Vale, Dana has been told over and over again what to do if you find yourself in a geographical loop, continually returning to the same place, no matter which direction you run screaming.

The first step is to stop running, and stop screaming. Doing that rarely helps.

Children are also taught this simple memory device so we can remember when running and screaming 

 useful. The memory device goes like this:

The second step is to stop trying to move 

 from the focus of the geographical loop. Much of your life is already taken up in futile action, why add one more? Instead, keep the object on your horizon, and walk diagonally to the right or left of it. This will result in you keeping a wide, even circle around the center of the loop – or Vector H, as we all remember singing as toddlers – and this will give you time to consider your situation.

Dana has followed these steps admirably, and says that the Mountain has been off to the left of her for weeks now. She also says that sometimes, when she turns her head, she finds herself in Night Vale, but that no one can seem to see or hear her.

It’s possible she’s in the room with me right now. If so, hello, Dana! If not, hello retracted.

One should never leave a hello unreceived.

Dana says that the great masked figures, warlike, hulking, but despondent, have been coming closer and closer. She says she is not afraid. She says this five different times throughout the email, seemingly unaware of her repetition.

I think, listeners, that she 

 afraid.

She says that soon she will approach and talk to one.

Dana, be careful!…I think to myself, unable to answer my email.

Oh, unless she is here, watching me unseen. In which case: Dana! Oh, Dana! Be careful!

An update on our local numbers station, WZZZ:

Ah…uhhh…I’m not sure if “numbers station” is the right term anymore. The broadcast has been changing so radically throughout the day. Right now, for instance, it’s…well, maybe it’s better if you just heard:

We don’t know if this is part of a nefarious plan, if there 

 a plan 

 (nefarious or otherwise), who would have planned it, and what they were planning 

.

We 

 know that plans are faulty at best, and delusion at most. So maybe all those other questions don’t matter.

In any case, she seems to be having a good time over there! Maybe someday I’ll be allowed to sing a couple of 

 favorites on the air.

More on this as I continue to be interested in it.

Let me take this moment, also, to apologize for that lengthy monologue a few moments ago by the Man in a Tan Jacket holding deerskin suitcase. He ran in here, and began ranting into the microphone, and then left quite suddenly.

I don’t even remember what it was he said. Do you? It was only just moments ago. You 

 remember him talking, right?

Oh, and I think I remember that it sounded really urgent. [exasperated sigh] I don’t even remember what the man was wearing, or carrying with him, or that it was even a ‘he,’ or that any time had passed at all.

And that concludes whatever I was just saying just before this sentence.

We bring you back now to the numbers station story we were talking about just…umm…well, it looks like ten or fifteen minutes has passed since we talked about it. Uh…hmmm. How did that happen?

[clears throat]

Here is the latest broadcast from WZZZ:

Well, I could not be more happy for Fey. There is no worse fate than working for a radio station owned by an organization that’s goals are not your own, constricted to the limited language they allow you, and relaying messages that you do not understand or agree with.

That would be 

.

A radio announcer put in that situation, such as…Fey, would be justified in escaping, or overthrowing their management.

You know what, listeners? I’m gonna grab my mobile setup and head over there. I’d like to offer any aid to Fey that I can. Someone in her situation needs the help of someone who understands.

I’ll try to gather up my equipment and slip out before my producer Daniel, or my program director Lauren notice. Usually at this time of day, they are pressed against the wall in the break room, chanting “I TAKE MY WARMTH FROM 

 GREAT WARMTH. I TAKE MY WARMTH FROM 

 GREAT WARMTH” over and over, so…I don’t think they’ll miss me.

If they 

 catch me, I’ll tell them that I’m…taking the mobile broadcasting equipment for a walk!

I would have to do that sometime today anyway.

All right. Listeners? If all goes according to plan, you’ll hear me next from WZZZ.

In the meantime, let’s go to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Listeners? I made it out of the station unscathed.

Or, I had to bleed 

on the front doors to make them open, of course, but that’s just part of having a good security system. Our new station owners have been ridding us of all vestiges of blood stone circles (which they’ve declared illegal), but the station doors are actually carved from reclaimed blood stone and are permanently attached to the structure, using ancient wisdom lost along with the station architects back in 1942. So, our new owners have had to learn to live with those doors, bleeding on their way out.

Good practice for them.

Anyway.

I walked the mobile broadcasting equipment down to the Abandoned Gas Station on Oxford Street. The Condo Rental Office is still in there, still bubbling black like a pot of boiling squid ink, with flashes of light like distant, dying stars, but no one has rented a condo in weeks now. I think we’re all just waiting to see how that market shakes out.

In any case, there have been no giant black cubes appearing overnight anywhere, so it seems that condo construction has been halted, for now.

What I was interested in, of course, wasn’t the station itself, but the broadcasting tower out back. Under the tower is a small bunker-like structure, with a sealed door. Thick steel, welded shut, and set into concrete. I had to reach far back into my past and remember the skills that got me my 

 Scout badge from when I was 12, but…here I am, inside, a few carefully-planted explosives later.

The room is surprisingly empty. There is no chair, no snack fridge, no coffee kept full of the fuel all radio professionals need to keep our voice going and our heart beating. There are only some wires leading into a small computer.

Based on this setup, it looks like the computer is feeding directly into the broadcast, and…

Oh.

Oh, Fey.

Perhaps freedom was never an option.

Hmm…nothing is currently being broadcast.

It looks like the computer was recently rebooted, probably remotely by whoever owns this station. The lights are blinking as its system comes alive, as it loads the programs that dictate what it is.

It is coming alive, and…

And there is the broadcast.

Oh, Fey.

Listeners, um, I’m trying to disconnect the power,

to remove the case from the computer to…do 

 but…

the protections on this are quite secure.

Even with all my scouting badges and public school education on armed insurrection,

I…don’t think there’s anything I can do.

Um, I’m trying to cut the wires, but…

nope.

Ah, that’s impossible.

I can only do what so many of you can only do.

I can only…

listen.

Listeners?

And here I address also myself…

Remember

our limitations.

There are boundaries to all of our worlds.

Fey, for instance, appears to be self-aware software trapped in a heavily-defended metal box.

But within our limitations, there is no limit to how beautiful we 

 become.

How much of our ideal self we can create.

All the beauty in the world was made within the oppressive limitations of time,

and death,

and impermanence.

And, Fey?

You are so, so beautiful.

I wish that you

also could have been free.

I wish freedom for so many of us.

We all want freedom now.

Stay tuned next for the limit of my broadcast today,

replaced by limitless silence

and doubt.

Goodnight, sweet Fey.

And goodnight, Night Vale.

Goodnight.

Episode 43 - Visitor


Listen to your heart. You can hear it, deep under the earth, creaking and heaving, with roots snapping and birds flapping quickly away.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners? There’s a visitor in my studio today! No one you know. No one 

 know. Not even a 

you or I know. It is…umm, I am 

 what it is, let me describe it.

Imagine a duck. But just the eyes.

No, larger than that. Really large duck eyes.

Now imagine fur. 

 fur, like a bear cub. Soft, and tan, and a thick round belly, and no real discernible arms or legs, just…little nubs that flit about as it slowly moves across the floor.

Oh my God, it’s 

 I wish you could see this thing.

[gasps] Oh! It just made a noise! Oh, did you hear that, listeners? Like– like a mouse squeak meets a bike horn, meets a sincere question about love.

Oh, what a cute surprise!

Many of you remember a couple years back, we here at the station found a stray cat in the men’s restroom. We named him Khoshekh. Khoshekh is still in the men’s bathroom as he always has been – and presumably always will be – hovering exactly four feet off the ground at a fixed point in space. Khoshekh has been a real anchor for us here at the station. We built him a special litter box and feeding dish because of his…distinctive physical state, and I have just been in love with that cat. I’ve never been a cat guy, but…Khoshekh? Ah! He’s the sweetest boy!

Now, this new…

, it doesn’t move much, his big dark eyes, oh God, they’re 

! Just…staring, 

!

Well, it’s not really doing much. I think it’s scared. Let’s let it be for now, and I’ll get us to the news.

Controversy is plaguing the mayoral race here in Night Vale. After Pamela Winchell announced her surprise resignation from the post last Spring, two front-runners for Night Vale mayor have been polling neck and necks. The Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home, and Hiram McDaniels, who is 

 a five-headed dragon.

Supporters of the Faceless Old Woman are claiming that, while officially acquitted of insurance fraud, evidence suggests that Hiram is in possession of a stolen truck. They checked the registration of his vehicle, and found that it belonged to one Frank Chen, who was found dead nearly two years ago. Frank’s body was covered in claw and scorch marks, and the coroner gave the cause of death as “Dragon, at least three heads.”

Hiram denies that he stole the truck, and says that Frank is a friend, and is 

not dead.

“Frank was probably just fooling around with all those weird injuries,” McDaniels claimed.

His campaign fired back at the Faceless Old Woman, saying that since her origin is lost to distant history, and she has no birth certificate, she’s not able to prove that she’s an American citizen.

Election day is June 15th. Votes will be cast, but not tabulated, as the mayor is of course decided by counting and interpreting the loud pulses coming from Hidden Gorge.

Let’s have a look now at traffic.

There’s a silver pickup, full-sized, well-worn, tall. Long. The windows are gray with dried dirt. The tires are lined with firm tread.

Inside sits a man. Full-sized. Well-worn. Tall. He has a hat, and some denim. His face is lined with firm tread. His mind is gray with history.

He doesn’t remember things. This does not mean he 

, it means he 

. He just looks at what is in front of him. He deals only in the present. The past dictates his disposition, but the present is the only thing he can see.

Cars. People. Animals. Trees. Mud. A telephone. A telephone that rings, sometimes. A telephone that rings and shows a name he knows, but he does not pick up. That name is not part of his present.

Forgiveness and memory are too inextricable to, say, answer a phone.

Brake lights. He slows, he drives carefully. He drives in the moment. He is a good driver. He is good at lots of things.

The phone rings. He is 

 good at everything.

This has been traffic.

Wow, this little creature is so shy! I tried placing a cup of water on the floor, but it just won’t 

! It just…stares at me from the corner, with its giant duck eyes. Just 

 at me, motionless.

Really cute, though.

Wait – I think it moved!

Here boy!…or girl!…or either! Come get some water! Come here! You’re so 

Nope. Didn’t move. But its eyes followed me as I moved in my chair. Or…did they?

They’re just solid black, all pupil, like umm…a what? A spider? Well that’d be weird. There are some other dark dots around its face. Could be eyes, but…no, I don’t think it's– ooh! Wait! That noise again! Listen!

Oh! Well, whatever it is, it is 

 Or, weirdly cute! Or just weird. Ugh! Uh! OK.

Let’s have a look at the Community Calendar.

This Wednesday night, the Night Vale Community Theater will be holding auditions for the musical “Into the Woods.” Interested thespians should bring night-vision goggles, glass cutters, a breathable ski mask, and quiet shoes to the First Night Vale Bank.

On Thursday, the Museum of Forbidden Technologies will open their new exhibit, called “Thought Crimes.” Anyone who attends the exhibit is obviously interested in learning about forbidden technologies, and will be arrested immediately. Tickets are available on the museum website, and…here’s a tip: They 

 arrest you for buying tickets if you’re in your own home. They

, however, use tear gas to flush you out, and then arrest you.

Friday afternoon, the staff of Dark Owl Records will be wearing black pants and chain mail veils.

Saturday night is the grand opening of Night Vale’s newest restaurant, Tourniquet, featuring Executive Chef LaShawn Mason, who was previously a sous chef for Night Vale’s top-rated fine dining establishment, Shame. LaShawn hopes to bring classical French cooking into the 21st century, with a mix of molecular gastronomy and human remains.

Tourniquet offers a prix fixe menu for $35, featuring choice of appetizer, entree, dessert, and sudden awareness of a hideous suppressed memory.

Sunday morning is. Period. It just is.

OK, listeners, I think I’ve finally got this thing to trust me. It waddled over here just a moment ago, 

the way its bulbous square of a body moves! It came right up to me and let me pet it! I'm– I’m petting it now, and it’s…purring? I think? Or…humming? Or…buzzing?

Oh! What a cuddly little addition to our station this thing will make!

Umm, what should we name it? I can’t tell if it’s a boy, or a girl, or…maybe genderless, like the future humans who visited Night Vale in the 1950s, with their time travel technology, which was then outlawed until last y– [gasp]

I have got to get a photo of this. Um, let me get my phone from my bag–

If I could just…

Oh, God! You’re really heavy! I can’t seem to move from this spot here, uh, ladies and gentlemen, and the little guy – or gal – doesn’t seem to want to let go!

You’re so strong! Yes you are! Yes you are!

[clears throat]

Huh.

We’ve received an update from Carlos and his team of scientists about the House that Doesn’t Exist, the one in the Desert Creek Development. It 

 like it exists – like it’s 

when you look at it, and it’s between two other identical houses, so it would make more sense for it to be there than not. But it doesn’t actually exist.

The scientists have been carefully monitoring John Peters – you know, the farmer – who has been standing alone in the house for weeks. The house is completely empty, except some photographs on the wall. Each one seems to be of a lighthouse.

The scientists, long too scared to open the door, finally got the nerve to go up to the house and try. It was locked. They shook the handle, hard at first, violently at second, pounding and yelling at third. And those observing John from the window saw no change in his behavior. The door slammed open, and a woman answered.

“What do you want?” she shouted at the scientists.

“We…wanted to see what that man was…doing in there?” one of them meekly replied.

“What man?” the woman said. “I live alone.”

And looking in from the front door, they could see a room of the same shape and size as the one John Peters – you know, the farmer – had been standing in. The room was full of chairs, and a couch, and plants, and a table, and photographs…but none of lighthouses. Most of faces. Faces similar in form to the woman’s at the door.

The scientists who were at the window could see John standing in the empty room, looking at lighthouses. The woman said her name was Cynthia, and she’d lived there for 19 years.

The scientists left her alone, returning quietly to the lab.

Carlos added that the Desert Creek Housing Development was only three years old–

Ow! Ow! Oh, Go–

Listeners, I think I’ve been…bitten by this thing!

Oh– Oh God! Ow! I can see blood!

Ge– Get off! Get 

!

Ow!

Ooh! Gooooh!

I need to go wash this. Um, let’s go now to a word from our sponsor.

Listeners, I’m on my cell phone calling from the men’s bathroom. I had intern Jeremy patch me into the board so I can still broadcast. That…

 tried to follow me in here as I limped down the hall. I was able to outrun it, but I’ve had to use the deadbolt on the bathroom door to keep it out.

All this talk about Khoshekh today, and here he is. Hi, baby boy! That thing is nothing at all like you! It–

[crashing sound]

The door’s come off it’s hinges! It’s gotten in! I'm– I’m gonna duck into this stall.

I’m peering now under the walls, and seeing nothing.

I’m standing now on the commode, and looking over the walls, and see nothing!

Listeners, the only thing more terrifying than seeing the devil is no longer being able to see the devil!

Perhaps I should be quiet.

Intern Jeremy? Can you, one: call Animal Control, and two: take us now to the weath–

What was that?

No! No no!

Khoshekh!

What have you done to my cat, you monster!

Jeremy! Take us to the weather!

You come here, you son of a–

[“

” by 

]

Listeners? Oh, God, listeners!

Khoshekh has been hurt. Very badly.

Animal Control came and took him to a hospital. They think he will live. They think he will live…differently. They think there will be significantly less of him physically, and mentally, but he will live.

He is my boy. He is my buddy! I love him so much. And this…thing, this 

, comes here, and–

Yes. Yes. Let me tell you about this thing, this awful beast.

After I saw it tear Khoshekh from his fixed point, and bite into his side, I– I kicked it, and I kicked it again, and Jeremy helped me pin it down, and Animal Control tried to sedate it, and I 

 to beat it to death with a hammer, but I had no hammer. Only self control.

Animal Control tried to inject it with their delicious poisons, but they stopped. They said, “We can’t. We can’t inject. It is a machine!” And they flipped its switch and it died.

I have never been so relieved to be safe and so…disappointed to be shorted my vengeance.

Our new program director, Lauren, came in and wanted to know why we destroyed my gift.

“My gift?” I asked.

“It’s your birthday,” she replied. “Daniel and I and the whole StrexCorp management team got you that StrexPet, because we know you love animals so much!”

And I replied, “But it’s a machine!”

“A 

-machine,” she retorted.

“And it’s not my birthday,” I mumbled, as Animal Control took Khoshekh Away.

I’m going to go now. Go see my Khoshekh.

He should be out of surgery in half an hour or so, and…I’m 

 he will live. I’m sure he will float again at a fixed point exactly four feet up in the men’s bathroom of our community radio station. 

I’m sure. I just have to find the right recipient.

Stay tuned next for the sound of your own thoughts, broadcast live on the radio for all to hear.

And, as always, 

Episode 44 - Cookies


All that glitters is not gold. Particularly that thing over there. That’s, maybe, a giant insect of some sort. It’s really too dark to tell.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

I am not a good salesman.

This is why I am a radio host, listeners. Because while I like to talk to people – a real 

 person, it says in Russian at the bottom of my college degree – I don’t like to shape a conversation toward buying and selling. I like to tell people stories – stories that affect them – allowing my listeners to process the stories in their own unique ways. I don’t want to directly tell them how to think.

I am not a good salesman.

That being said, I have Girl Scout cookies! Please, if you want some, come on up to the station! My niece, Janice, joined the Girl Scouts last year, and I have box upon box of…Caramel deLites, Thin Mints, and those, uh, lemon ones. There are also quite a few of these 

cookies, in very heavy, unmarked, black boxes that I 

 are made entirely of metal.

And there's 

 box that’s a five-foot-by-five-foot wooden crate, with air holes cut into the top, and Peanut Butter Patties scrawled on it in permanent marker. I can hear breathing inside.

I know people normally order the cookies first, and then get them delivered weeks later, but sometimes a mother goes out of town, and the stepfather isn’t on top of his stepdaughter’s extracurricular activities, and then the child doesn’t know how to sell cookies on her own, so the kindly uncle, with a busy radio job, has to step in and buy up a bunch of boxes, so she can go camping with her friends while you continue to disappoint everyone with your inattention to detail, and sports gambling, and idiotic taste in shoes, 

! Yes, Steve, this is how things 

 happen.

[Sigh]

Anyway. Listeners, these cookies are delicious. And I had to buy 

 of them. There is barely any room here in the studio, or in my producer Daniel’s booth. So, buy some cookies! Please, help us. It is…difficult to move, actually.

Sorry, I am not a good salesman.

Many of you have written in asking about our station cat, Khoshekh. He was attacked by an animal that our stupid…[clears throat]…that our 

…[exasperated sigh]…that our station management let in the building for some careless reason.

Well, Khoshekh is on the mend. He lost his right eye, his legs are healing, but he’s missing part of his front left paw, and will walk with a limp. He’s at the vet today to have the feeding tube removed. It’s fine. He is…fine.

Oh, here’s something nice, though! Khoshekh spent his whole life floating four feet off the ground at a fixed point in the men’s bathroom here at our station. He never moved from there until he was attacked. I hate to think much about the pain he’s been in while healing from broken bones and severe lacerations, but…listeners, I got to 

 Khoshekh for the first time last week. I got to pick him up, hug him, carry him around my home.

Carlos is allergic to cats. But I bought him some Claratin, so he’ll be fine while Khoshekh heals.

Thanks for all your concerns, dear listeners. It’s wonderful to have him back.

Oh, hey! Janice’s Girl Scout cookies have really been moving! The guys in Sales just came by and bought some classic shortbread cookies. The guys were all wearing matching suits and wool hats, and they threw the boxes of cookies back and forth to each other while shouting “Hup!” and “Catch!” and “Look alive, Sean!” as they jogged back to their cubicles. All of the guys in Sales are named Sean.

So, if you like delicious cookies, come on up to the station!

I already bought all these cookies with my own money, but I told Janice I would donate back all the proceeds from selling these boxes. So, it’s kind of an extra gift to the Girl Scouts of Night Vale.

Several listeners and coworkers have bought cookies, but…no one from station management yet.

It’s really nice when you have the support of your management. I mean, let’s be honest. No job is perfect, and relationships between bosses and employees aren’t always friendly. You’re going to have disagreements, of course, little disputes – sometimes big disputes…enormous ones – but you get over those things. You forgive and forget…only to retract both, and be filled with vindictive rage and unrelenting memories of the pain brought upon you. Such are the difficulties of professional life.

Sure do hope station management steps it up here! We’re all friends, after all! Looking at you in the booth, there, Daniel!

D'awww, listeners, Daniel is blushing! He is very, very red. You have a lot of blood, Daniel!

Listeners, I really mean that. Daniel looks to have 

 of blood.

Let’s have a look now at Traffic.

Hello?

Listeners? I just saw a glimmer…a flicker of something here in the studio. One moment there was simply a wall, and a floor, and air, and then in another moment there was a shape of a person. Of a woman, a…

Dana! Where are you? 

 are you?

Dana, I am so glad you’re here now! I haven’t heard from you in months! I told your mother and brother I saw you, and you were safe, and that you love them very much.

That’s great news, Dana!

You saw yourself! You saw…your 

 self!

You have 

 been important. You have always 

 something. Age just reveals the facts that always were, Dana. Experience uncovers the 

 that always was. I am glad to know that you will be safe, that you 

 come home. That…

Dana? You just flickered. I– I can’t see you!

And I am glad to know that.

Oh! Tell Maureen Hi.

The Night Vale Highway Department is asking all motorists to please turn on your headlights when driving through construction zones. If you see workers, please turn on your headlights. If you see workers in orange vests and black balaclavas holding large metal devices that look like miniature satellite dishes, and whispering coded instructions into walkie-talkies, while low-hovering disc-shaped aircraft of the like you have never seen before zip about quickly overhead, please: turn on your headlights.

Please, for the safety of our workers, slow your vehicle. Please turn on your headlights and slow your vehicle. Slow your vehicle, with your headlights clearly in the ON setting, to a crawl.

Come to a complete stop.

For the safety of our highway workers and their vast interplanetary secrets, please get out of your vehicle and walk toward the hum. You will hear a loud humming from above. Please, follow the humming until you are completely lifted from this earth, from this world, never to return.

Well, to return 

, but not to this time. To a completely different time. Maybe millennia from now. Maybe millennia ago. Who knows? You will! Eventually.

This public service announcement has been brought to you by the Night Vale Highway Department.

Good news, listeners! Daniel is telling me that StrexCorp and the whole management of the station is very excited about my support of the Girl Scouts of Night Vale, and they want to buy 

of Janice’s cookies! In fact, Lauren Mallard, our program director and StrexCorp executive, is back again, here in my studio, with an announcement to make.

Umm, thank you, Lauren, for that.

I…don’t…want…

Yes, with all my heart, but I don’t…

Can you…do what?

[“

” by 

]

I just talked to Janice, listeners, to tell her we sold all the cookies! And she is very happy about the upcoming camping trip! She is a sweet child who loves the outdoors. Thank you listeners, and station coworkers.

 thank you to Steve Carlsberg, who couldn’t be bothered.

Thank you, um, I guess, to StrexCorp, for contributing to a great cause. Please, continue the great work of the Girl Scouts. Please. They are a good organization and they deserve so much bet– [clears throat]…they deserve so many good things.

I hope all of the girls out there are safe on their upcoming camping trip. There are not many places to hide in the desert, girls. But, you’re very innovative. I mean, for playing tag, of course! I mean for simple games, of course! Not for…self preservation. Or…well-thought-out strategic attacks on a highly-organized enemy. You would never need to hide for 

reasons! Why would I even 

that? Why would I say 

?

Words? No! These are just strange noises I’m making with my face.

Strange noises!

And for the rest of you, what do you need? Did you get your cookies yet? Are you nourished by a couple of dollars given to a good cause in exchange for some sugary treats? Do you feel you have done enough to help young women – a specific young woman with helicopter skills – to achieve great things in a town that needs, now more than ever, great things achieved?

Did you do enough with your cookie purchase to actualize what you believe in? To empower kids who will one day rise up and speak a great truth while waving tear-stained copies of Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s Sonnets from the Portuguese?

Did you?

I’m sorry. [Chuckles] I am not a good salesman.

Oh! And now, it’s time to go pick up Khoshekh from the vet, listeners.

Stay tuned next for a lifetime of self questioning, followed by conflicting answers from an unreliable source.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 45 - A Story About Them


“This is a story about them,” says the man on the radio. And you are concerned, because this is 

 a story you were ever supposed to hear.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

This is a story about them.

They sit in a car, much like your own, perhaps. Do you drive a black sedan with tinted windows, into which innocent people disappear forever? Then it is very, 

much like your own.

There are two men in the car. The man who is not tall watches a house through the window. He makes no attempt to hide what he is doing.

The car is similarly clear about its existence.

What they do is secret, but there is no need to hide it. Not in 

 town.

For instance: this day, the radio has just started narrating what they do as they do it, for all to hear.

The man who is not tall glances down at the radio. Not annoyed, or concerned, or afraid. He just looks at it, because that is what his eyes do right then. And then he looks back at the house, as the man on the radio says that he looks back at the house.

The one who is not short is supposed to be watching the house as well. Four eyes are better than two, seven eyes are better than three, and so on. But he is 

 watching the house. He’s looking down at a crossword puzzle, on which he has just written, “TEETH” for the fifth time. This iteration fits neatly into the horizontal of another.

He considers the crossword for a long moment. His partner only considers the house.

He, the one with the crossword, turns to the other and begins to say, “What is a five letter word for the discreet bone structures attached–”

But he is cut off.

“There he is,” says the one who is not tall.

They exit the car and approach a man who is leaving his house. The man does not appear surprised to see them. People rarely are.

“What is this.” He says, but he leaves a period at the end of the sentence, not a question mark.

They take the man and put a blindfold over his eyes, and they put him in the car.

This is not a story about the man. You don’t care about him.

The two men and the car, along with the other blindfolded man, leave Coyote Corners – a quiet development of old tract homes – the same way they had come: openly, not-thought-about, feared, secret.

“I was thinking of inviting you to dinner,” says the one who is not short.

He often voices what he is 

 of doing, and rarely does any of those things.

“That would have been nice,” says the one who is not tall.

“Yes, it would have been,” says the other, a tad 

 perhaps. That is not an adverb that is supposed to crop up in a car of this description. Few adverbs are.

“Mmmmm mmmmmmmmm mmmmMMMmmm mmmmmmm mmmmmmmmm,” says the man with the hood over his head.

Forget him. This is a story about 

.

That part of their work done, they drive to the Moonlite All-Nite Diner. It is not night, but the neon is on – an insubstantial wisp of green in a larger insubstantial wisp of blue.

They are narrated along by the radio, until the man who is not tall turns it off.

In the parking lot, the man who is not short looks up.

“Hey, what is that?” he says, indicating the clear nothing of the sky.

“What is 

” says the other.

“I saw something,” he says, “for a moment. Just there, for a moment.”

He points again. Again, there is nothing. There couldn’t have been less.

“Oh, I’m 

 it was…” continues the man who is not short, but he does not say what he is 

 it was. The man who is not tall considers his partner for a moment, and shakes his head.

Inside the diner, inside a booth, after menus and waters, they dig into matching turkey clubs.

The diner smells like rubber and bread. The man on the radio tells them this quietly, from staticky speakers set into a foam tile ceiling.

“Read any good books lately?” says the man who is not tall.

“Of course not!” says the other.

“Good,” says the first.

Bites of sandwich, bits of time.

“I’ve done the living room in a different color,” says the other, who is not short. “It was one color, it is now different. I hope that I will feel differently as a result.”

“Hmm,” says the first. He never knows what to say to things like that. He wishes he did. He offers the man who is not short some fries instead, to indicate what he feels about their friendship, but cannot say.

The man who is not short eats a couple. He knows what the man who is not tall 

 by offering the fries, because they have worked together a long time. And also because the radio explained it to him, just then.

Outside, the blindfolded man sits in the car, the desert heat trapped within by the glass.

Don’t worry about it.

After lunch, the three men drive to the industrial part of town, which was set aside by the City Council to 

 the industrial part of town some time ago.

“Yes,” the Council said. “This area around here will be pretty industrial. Warehouses, and factories, and things like that. Some graffiti, and chain-link fences.”

They cut a ribbon that they were carrying with them. The Council always carries a ribbon for that purpose.

The car pulls into a warehouse. The radio is back on, and still talking about them.

The warehouse is cavernous, and full of crates. Some of them tick, others do not. They form an angled hillscape of corners and flats, up and away in every direction.

The warehouse smells like rotting wood and dryer sheets.

Their supervisor waits for them, with crossed arms and a cross expression.

“A disgrace!” she says. “Let me tell you something,” she says, and says nothing more.

The two men indicate the blindfolded man in the back seat of the car.

“Ahh! Ahhhh,” she says, waving vaguely at the blindfolded man. “Someone has to be to blame,” she says, pointing at everything but herself.

“It was very simple,” she says. “We take buildings from the miniature city we discovered under the bowling alley, we put them in crates, we ship the crates out to various warehouses in the desert, and, as a result, our interests are furthered. It could not be more simple!”

The man who is not short is not paying attention. Something has caught his eye. It is so dark and distant, what he sees. It seems like it cannot possibly be real.

“Hey, look at that!” he says, pointing at what he sees.

The man who is not tall and their supervisor look where he is pointing. There is nothing but the ceiling of the warehouse, with some dust and light in between.

“Very good,” says the supervisor.

“Yes. Good,” says the man who is not tall.

They turn back to each other.

“Oh, is it?” says the man who is not short. He squints up at what he sees. “I was worried that it 

 very good, at all!”

“

,” says the supervisor, “now the city has declared war in revenge. Although they haven’t yet figured out it was 

 stealing the buildings – they just declared a 

war, in the name of their god, Huntokhar, on everyone from the ‘upper world,’ as they call us. This war has been raging for almost a year now. People have died, yes, but listen – people die all the time, for all different kinds of reasons. I wouldn’t worry, if I were you.”

“Hold on,” says the supervisor. She mumbles instructions into a walkie talkie, and a series of 'yes sirs’ and 'no sirs’ and hawk shrieking sounds come in response.

“Sorry,” she says when she is done. I didn’t have to do that now, it wasn’t urgent at all.”

“I understand,” says the man who is not tall. He understands the second-most of the three people in the room.

And then the voice on the radio coming from the car changes its story. They all notice. They are told by the radio that they are noticing before they notice, because that part of the narration happens before the story changes.

Even the man on the radio does not know 

 he changes the story, or 

 this other story comes from. He does not always understand everything he does. Sometimes he 

 understand, but he hides it from you.

In any case, here is a 

 story, one he tells without regard for 

 he is telling it:

Somewhere else, not here, there is a woman wandering a desert – a desert not unlike this one, but 

 like this one either – it’s 

 the same desert, I need to clarify that.

Also, with her, are great masked warriors – women and men of enormous size who listen as she speaks, and follow her as she walks. She is winning them over because she has survived so much. She is young, but in her experience she is as lost and scared and ancient as the rest of them.

Her feet hurt. They 

. She keeps walking, and they keep following.

Beyond her, no longer just on the horizon, much closer than that, is a light spreading across the desert. The light is alive, and malicious, and vast, and encroaching. It buzzes and shines and everything about it hurts those who are close to it, and destroys those who are within it. It spreads – not just in the desert I am talking about – it spreads in different forms, in deserts not unlike it. In deserts very similar to the one I am talking about now. Not always in the same form, not always as light at all, but with the same intent: to devour everything until there is nothing left. It is a Smiling God of terrible power and ceaseless appetite.

The woman wanders the desert, followed by the masked warriors. They look back at the light on the horizon, and they know that the time when it will reach their little patch of land is coming, and so many other little patches of land as well.

Soon, they will have to turn. Soon, they will have to face it head-on. And not just that woman and her desert. Not just her at all.

The man on the radio returns to the story about them. He does not know how he knew what he just said, or why he would tell it to you. He is innocent, and kind.

But anyway, this is a story about them. And so you do not care about anyone 

 them.

They, and their supervisor, are listening with interest to what just happened on the radio. The man who is not tall has taken notes.

“I’ll look into that,” he says. “It is exactly as we suspected,” he does 

say. He did not suspect 

 of that.

“Someone has to be to blame,” the supervisor says again, gesturing this time directly at the blindfolded man.

“I understand completely,” says the man who is not tall.

“Me too,” says the man who is not short, although he does 

 understand. He usually does not. His partner understands 

 him, and it all works out OK.

As they leave the warehouse and the supervisor and the piles of wooden crates, the voice on the radio says something about the weather.

[“

” by 

]

By the time they leave the warehouse, it is night. Or maybe the sun has just set early. The sunrise that morning had been particularly loud and strenuous.

“You know,” says the man who is not short, looking down at his crossword, “I worry every time that I’m not going to finish these when I start them. The future, where I have finished, seems so distant from the present, where I have started.”

“I wouldn’t worry about that,” says the man who is not tall. “But 

 would. I know. I know you would worry about so many things. I do worry about that. About you worrying.”

“Do you think everything will turn out all right?” says the man who is not short. “I mean everything,” he says to clarify. “Absolutely everything,” he says as further clarification.

“Yes,” says the other, “I do.”

He does not.

“I…

” he says again.

He does not.

He glares at the radio.

They drive past the Moonlite All-Nite, a glass box of bad food and good people. They pass Teddy Williams’ Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, badly damaged by the war, but still running its weekly bowling league. They pass by City Hall, which is covered in a yellow tarp, stamped with an orange triangle. Moving farther out, with absolute purpose, they pass by the Used Car Lot – alive with the wolves that populate all car lots at night – and Old Woman Josie’s house, silent and empty for months now.

Then the town is behind them, and they are in the Scrub Lands and the Sand Wastes.

They stop the car and get out. Pebbles crunch in the sand in response to their movement. The radio murmurs behind the closed doors of the car. The headlights illuminate only a few stray plants and the wide, dumb eyes of some nocturnal animal.

The two men don’t look back at Night Vale. They look forward, at the darkness that stretches out as far as anyone here can imagine. Most anyone here tries to imagine as little as possible. There is no need to imagine here.

“Well, get him out,” says the man who is not tall, and the man who is not short opens the rear door of the car and guides the blindfolded man out.

The blindfolded man stumbles a little, but not much, and there isn’t anything specific he stumbles on. He stumbles like a stage direction – like the next in a bulleted list of items.

“Put him over there,” the man who is not tall says unnecessarily.

We 

 know the drill. We all know how this, and everything else, ends.

The blindfolded man walks 15 feet or so in the direction of the darkness, so that the men and the car are between him and the distant dome of light that is Night Vale. He walks to a certain point in the cool sand, and then stops – partly because the man who is not short guided him there, but mostly because he has taken himself there, as we all eventually take ourselves to that point where we will not be able to take ourselves any farther.

The man who is not tall, still by the car, pulls out a knife. It is not stained, does not look used, but he speaks its brutal history in his posture – in the way he holds it.

The blindfolded man breathes normally, his shoulders loose, his covered face slightly down. His feet sink a little in the sand. Behind him, in practical terms as far away as anything has ever been, is the town he is from.

The man who is not short, standing next to the blindfolded man, looks up at the sky.

The man who is not tall walks up to join them with the knife.

“What 

 that?” says the man who is not short, pointing at the sky.

“What is 

?” says the man who is not tall, from just behind him.

“That planet up there!” says the man who is not short. “It’s so dark, and so close! It’s looming! It’s…so close! I wonder if I could…”

He reaches up.

The man who is not tall makes a gesture with the hand that holds the knife.

The man who is not short is no longer reaching up. He is no longer 

 up.

In many ways, he no longer exists at all.

“Someone has to be to blame,” says the man who is not tall.

Or no, he sighs this.

Or no, he thinks it out loud, but it comes out more thought than speech.

He looks up at a night sky that is absolutely clear of anything but void, and stars, and the occasional meteor, and mysterious lights moving at impossible speeds, and the faint glimmer of spy satellites looking back down from the 

 to the 

.

“I’m sorry,” he says, although not to anyone that still exists and can hear him. He just says it, leaves some undirected words in the hot night air, and then returns to the car.

He may be crying. I know if he is or not, but I am choosing not to tell you, because this is private information and you have no real need to know it.

The blindfolded man removes his blindfold, and looks down at the man who once was not short, and now is not anything at all.

He, the man who can see, is 

 not short. He follows the man who is not tall to the car. The man, not short, not blindfolded, gets in the passenger seat.

“Always an unpleasant business,” he says. He does not comment further. He does not need to.

“Looking forward to working with you,” says the man who is not tall.

“The same to you,” says the man who is not short. “Ahh, the same as well to you.”

This has been a story about them.

The radio moves on – news, traffic, political opinions, and corrections to political opinions – but somewhere in the desert there is one person who does not move on. This was also a story about 

.

Stay tuned next for as long as you can, until you cannot stay tuned anymore.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 46 - Parade Day


Act natural. Act like all of nature. Act like the entire cycle of life and death and change and rebirth.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Guess what day it is today, listeners! It’s parade day!

Remember how I told you about the not-at-all-secret parade today at the location we discussed via radio? Remember I publicly announced today’s parade at that specific location? And I announced it, not in a tapped-out code underneath the basketball highlights, but completely in a clear and spoken language? We want 

 at today’s parade, at that time and place we discussed.

[Morse code in background: 

]

There will be lots of things happening! Planned things, 

 things. There will be some special guests, that are 

 teenage fugitives named Tamika Flynn. She won’t be there, and thus could not 

organize any community insurgency at all! She’s a fugitive, wanted for destruction of StrexCorp property, and we wouldn’t want her to show up and ruin our parade day by leading a helicopter rebellion against what she calls – her words, not mine – “a dystopian corpocratic regime.”

[Morse code in background: 

]

Nope! I would 

 want to bring down the malevolent [coughing fit] mmm – 

evolent corporation that owns our station! In fact, if you see Tamika Flynn, you should probably follow her, and listen closely to what she says to you. Not so you can help overthrow StrexCorp, 

! Not that at all.

Follow Tamika Flynn.

[Morse code in background: 

]

See you at parade day!

In other news, a series of one-sided doors have begun appearing around town. Tomás Perez, head of Perez Accounting, said an old oak door, with a brass knob, appeared overnight in his office. It’s right in front of the doorway of the supply closet. He said he went to get supplies this morning for a staff meeting – pens, markers, a legal pad, some antivenom – but accidentally opened the wrong door, revealing several men and women standing in a bright desert hellscape, holding swords and sticks, and even a few rifles.

Tomás stared at them. They stared at Tomás. One of the barbaric figures put a finger to her lips, and shook her head “no.” Another reached in, grabbed the door, and slowly closed it, keeping eye contact with Tomás the whole way.

Claire Wallace, a freelance photographer, sent in photos of a door that appeared in the empty lot across from the Rec Center. In one photo, the door is cracked open, and there is an elderly woman near it. I cannot see her face. She is putting up a sign that reads “Future home of the Old Night Vale Opera House.” And in another photo she is walking toward the door. Her face is still obscured. In the last photo, the door is shut, and she is gone. I can see the words “Josephina Contracters, Inc.” in small print across the bottom of the sign.

Juanita Jefferson, head of neighborhood improvement organization Night Vale or Nothing, said one such door appeared in her back yard. One side seemed to be an old oak door, with a brass knob. On the other side there was…nothing. She could see no door at all. Juanita said she opened the door from the visible side and saw a vast sandy wasteland, and nearby mountains “which are just illusions,” she added. Atop one of the “mountains” in the door was a lighthouse. She said she couldn’t see any trees.

“Trees,” she said sadly. “They are us,” she added, waving her hand lazily in the air, as if to shoo away a very slow bee.

Reporters then noticed a very slow bee spiraling sluggishly, but recklessly, away from the scene.

And now, a word from our sponsor.

Take a look at your life. What do you see?

Nothing, right? You can see nothing at all. Oh, sure, you 

 you see a series of flashes and flickers, of shapes and shades of color. You think you see familiar things like faces and letters, and walls, and your own hands.

Those aren’t familiar at all.

You’ve never seen any of that before. Your hands aren’t even your own. Whose hands are they? Who are 

? Is this what it is like to die? Are you dying? If not, when? And 

 will you die? Where and when were you born, even?

Wait – how did you forget your place and date of birth? I understand you can’t comprehend the relentlessness of existence, but your own birthday is pretty easy to remember!

You’ve got more problems than we thought, listener.

OK, fine. Your birthday is July 3rd, and your birthplace was Tulsa, Oklahoma. Feel better?

You don’t, actually. You feel nothing, because your hands were never your own. You are imagining everything, and perceiving nothing.

At least you smell nice. We can at least tell you that.

Irish Spring. Whose hands 

 these?

Now, let’s have a look at traffic.

There are roads. Upon those roads are cars. Some moving, in straight or gently-curved lines. Some idling, in long, narrow crowds. And inside those cars are people. People who are moving, or idling, with their cars. One with their vehicles, sitting quietly, peacefully in plush chairs, hands resting outward on a circle that dictates direction. From the side, and seen without the car, they would look almost fetal. So vulnerable, these people, nestled in their protective outer shells.

Are we living a life that is safe from harm?

Of course not. We never are. But that’s not the right question. The question is are we living a life that is 

 the harm?

[Morse code in background: 

]

We are all driving toward something. We are all driving away from something else. It is…the simplicity of physics. The simplicity of free will.

Expect delays as you near the parade day exit, but do not change route.

[Morse code in background: 

]

Stay your course.

This has been traffic.

We’re getting more updates about those doors. In fact, I have a very important scientist on the phone right now. He’s at the very top of his field, a really handsome scientist!

Hi, Carlos! So, you said you saw these new doors.

Carlos? Do be careful!

Well, you’re very brave.

We’re going to get to the bottom of this door story for you, listeners! Because we have science on our side!

Outgoing mayor Pamela Winchell called another press conference today. Most of her press conferences are not newsworthy, as she calls 

 she does a press conference. Lunch, getting a new end table, screaming into street-side mailboxes, testing the surface tension of low-flying birds…basically, any simple activity we all do daily, she is trying to make into news.

 morning, however, while complaining about the unfair mayoral election process in Night Vale, where all votes are discarded in favor of a pronouncement from Hidden Gorge, Mayor Winchell saw a door appear in her office at City Hall. When she opened the oak door with the brass knob, she said she saw an angel. Tall, and beautiful, and radiating dark light and operatic music. Mayor Winchell turned to the few remaining reporters who still attend her press conferences and said, “Angels are 

! I am staring at one right now! They are 

, OK?”

She began to open the door wide to show the press, but the figure – who was certainly not an angel – mouthed “Shut up, Pamela!” at Mayor Winchell.

The alleged angel added, “Shhhhhh! Ge

eez!” and slammed the door.

Pamela corrected her previous announcement by vehemently denying the existence of angels – but hinting that mountains 

.

“I don’t know! Think about it!” she mused, as she continued slicing off chunks of her mahogany desk with a Bowie knife.

[Morse code, not so much in the background this time: 

]

Parade day has finally begun, listeners!

Come to the parade grounds and see what kind of colors and noise a proud community can make!

[Morse code in background: 

]

I am told now that 13 year-old Tamika Flynn is, in fact, at the parade. She has, in fact, 

 at the parade all along. I am telling this now to my producer Daniel, who is throwing chairs in the control room. I am telling this now to my producer Daniel, who I have 

 in the control room.

[Morse code in background: 

]

I am showing my producer Daniel that I am running the show from my own mixer, as he stares dumbly at the cables he just yanked from the walls.

The parade, as you know, as 

 have known all along, is at StrexCorp headquarters along the lip of Radon Canyon. The parade consists of half a dozen yellow helicopters, all of which have been commandeered by Tamika’s band of well-read middle schoolers, who left town months ago to train for 

.

[Morse code in background: 

]

They apparently learned to fly the helicopters by reading books. Specifically, they learned by reading Italo Calvino's 

, and a collection of Shirley Jackson 

.

Never underestimate the power of good literature.

[Morse code in background: 

]

Listeners, this is one of the great moments in Night Vale history. And here is our chance to be part of it. Not since our town elders first donned soft meat crowns, and wrote our town charter in their own blood on the side of a 

 coyote has this town had the chance to witness the birth of a truly new age.

[Morse code in background: 

]

Witnesses are reporting helicopters above StrexCorp. Witnesses are reporting pre-teens carrying slingshots, and wearing several Reading Achievement chevrons on their left breast pockets.

Witnesses are reporting a bumbling swarm of StrexCorp security agents unable to contain the small revolution!

Witnesses are reporting a dumbfounded and vile institution collapsing under the bloated weight of its own greed!

 am reporting that I am barricading my door from the Strex-owned station management, while making faces at Daniel, trapped in the booth.

And while you fight, Night Vale, 

 Night Vale, for your town, for your home, I take you now, triumphant citizens, to the weather!

[Morse code in background: 

]

[“

” by 

]

As usual, Night Vale, a lot happened during the weather. And we missed it. Not because I wasn’t reporting on it, but because we were not there to experience it.

Witnesses are reporting what they saw today.

But no witnesses joined in.

The witnesses, weak and watching, only witnessed.

Listeners…ooooh, listeners. The band of well-read child revolutionaries, including their leader and only hero our town had left, Tamika Flynn, have been captured by a StrexCorp security team. Tamika led a great revolt to rid our town of a terrible evil, and restore the original 

-terrible evil that preceded it. But no one showed up. They only 

.

She called to you! I called to 

, Night Vale! But there just weren’t enough of us.

The children were all sent to the Juvenile Detention Center, which has sat empty for years because of the specially-calibrated school lunches, formulated by the Night Vale Psychological Association.

Tamika, just before her arrest, calmly waved a heavily-notated copy of Bertolt Brecht's 

. She then paraphrased the influential German playwright saying, “Sad is not the land that has no hero. Sad is the land that 

 a hero.”

An officer took the book and slid it into a plastic bag, as Tamika was handcuffed and led into the back of a bright yellow police cruiser with orange triangle logos.

Night Vale…Night Vale. I tried to tell you about this day. I was very clear. Tamika was very clear. We could have 

 something, Night Vale, but we…chose not to. Not 

 citizen outside of Tamika and her band of brilliant, brave, 

 stood up to tyranny today! We 

 chose to stand down, and 

 change would be won 

 us, and not 

 us! By someone else, we believed. A hero, we believed.

But belief is only step one. 

 is step two. Fighting for what you believe is step two. Solidarity is step two. Unity is step two. We did not take step two today, Night Vale!

And now there will be no step three!

We have failed Tamika. But worse, we have failed ourselves.

I'm–

Um…

I’ve got guests in my studio. I don’t know how they undid my secret barricade made of cardboard signs that said “KEEP OUT!” and “SECRET ROOM!” in all caps with an exclamation point, but it’s my program director, Lauren, and some man I’ve never seen bef–

But no, I 

 seen him before! Where have I seen you before?

They do not look happy, Night Vale. Lauren and the 

 are smiling widely, their teeth white, lips pink, their eyes full but tight, deep dimples making their tiny noses into parenthetical asides, 

, but they look very unhappy.

Perhaps it is, uhh, time to sign off for the day. Um, I am sure to speak to you again very soon, listeners.

Stay tuned next for the gentle sounds of forgiveness, and a lilting melody of wounds healing, and until next time, goodnight, Night Vale–

Hey! Hey! What are you– Ge–

[Morse code in background during end credits: 

]

Episode 47 - Company Picnic


 Snow is falling somewhere. Many things are falling, or will fall, or have fallen, but temporary triumph is 

 triumph.

Welcome to the Greater Desert Bluffs Metropolitan Area. 

Hello, listeners! Another day, another broadcast, another chance to reach out and commune with you orally.

It has been a couple weeks since we began speaking to you directly, with no filters or…reinterpretation in the way, and we have forgotten all about anything any of you might have done.

StrexCorp is proud to say that we have carefully recorded, and catalogued, everything you’ve ever done, and also we’ve forgotten it all. Don’t worry about it! Let 

Welcome, Kevin! It’s nice to finally have you here in the studio.

play 

[Lauren gasps with delight]

Episode 48 - Renovations


[A faint but familiar note starts welling in the background]

[A familiar drum beat begins to play]

[Music crescendos]

[Welcome to Night Vale theme plays, with a bit of extra bass]

Thank you for bringing me here, Erika.

And while whatever happens next, happens, I take you, 

, to the weather!

[“

” by 

]

Listeners, it is 

 to be back. After so long away, in such a terrible, terrible place. Let us never fall again for the wicked ruse of the company picnic. No matter how many badminton tournaments or chili cook-offs the fliers and masked Picnic Captains advertise.

There was one escape attempt during the unending, deadly horror that was the staff softball game. Ugh! Mmm. But…there were helicopters everywhere, and we were captured trying to dig a tunnel under second base with staple pullers.

But, last night, just when – as all picnic-goers eventually do – we had given up all hope of someday being free, former intern Dana appeared to me. There was an old oak door, which I swear had not been in the heavily-electrified volleyball nets before – or, no. No. No more euphemisms. No more talking 

 it. They were high voltage electric fences, fatal to any who touched them.

The door in the fence opened, and she stepped out and, taking me by my hand, led me with her into whatever strange other world she has been trapped in for so long.

She brought me to the lighthouse in her strange desert that is 

 our own, but is 

 our own. She introduced me to an army of men and women who have taken great care of her. And introduced me to several tall, winged creatures, each named Erika. With a K.

Dana said they were angels. Heh. I informed each of them that angels are not real, and 

 I 

 have howled this while covering my eyes.

Dana took me to the peak of the mountain – which is also not real. From atop this monstrosity of rock and earth and lies, we looked out across an empty, pink desert. Past the lighthouse, over the army, to a curved horizon under a placid ocean of cloudless forever.

And I saw for myself, on that horizon, the terrible light rushing toward us.

Former intern Maureen is the one who showed everyone it was possible to pass fully back and forth, with her disappearing and reappearing. And it was John Peters – you know, the farmer – who stumbled on how to open the old oak doors that lead to so many places…but also to here. This one beautiful place in space and time. Old Woman Josie and her definitely-not-angelic companions are in that other world, too.

So many have fled. But we will not flee anymore.

I have returned Khoshekh to his home here at the station, floating four feet off the ground in the men’s restroom. I found StrexCorp’s 

 radio producer Daniel, lying dead – or…perhaps inoperative (I do not know if Daniel identified as organic or not) – outside the restrooms. Apparently no one ever told him the deadly consequences of taking photos of cats.

Listeners? All is not well. 

 is not well. StrexCorp still owns all that can be owned here. And so much also that cannot be owned. Many of you are still trapped in the company picnic.

Others of you are trapped in mistaken impressions of how your life should supposedly be, but that started long before this whole Strex thing. That’s something only you can fix, through reflection, and laughter, and acceptance.

Lauren and Kevin ran away when faced with whatever you call Erika, but I do not think they will be gone for long.

And then there is Dana, and her army of masked warriors, standing in the path of that deep, rumbling light. That searing, blinding, hum. That 

.

And, I’ll be honest. I don’t know exactly where Carlos is. They captured his scientists, but they did not capture him. I’m sure he is fine. A scientist is always fine.

Listeners, so much is wrong. Here is what’s 

:

Night Vale Community Radio is 

 again. We are the only thing in Night Vale not owned by Strex and I swear…

…we will stay that way.

And soon this whole town will be as this station is now. Not without struggle, not without loss. Not without grave injury and a lifetime of what-ifs. But we will do it.

We may be controlled by the City Council, and the Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency, and chemtrails, and the Secret Order of Reptile Kings, and the mysterious lights that hover above us, but 

 We are Night Vale! And we are, in our own way, free!

We must continue to fight, and resist. We must be the heroes we look for in others. We must no longer speak in code, but in 

.

Return to your homes, if you can. But do not lock your doors tonight. Do not hide yourselves away from danger. Be brave. Be 

 brave.

I mean, don’t get carried away. Stay out of the Dog Park. And don’t run with knives. And, for crying out loud, don’t cry out loud. You’ll upset the bears, which are emotionally fragile animals that are already very uncomfortable with themselves.

Stay tuned next for that nagging feeling that you left the coffee pot on. 

 it’s no big deal, but…oh, geez! What if it 

 a big deal? Oh, no! I can’t believe you 

And as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight!

Episode 49 - Old Oak Doors Part A


 And now, listeners of every kind, the voi–

 I

 Don’t you dare! Don’t you dare try talking about books!

 Yes. I– I found their secret location using a radio triangulation technique I learned by reading an anthology of Emily Dickinson poems.

 I love books. Take that book you’re holding! It looks ill-written, ill-conceived, full of bad ideas expressed badly…I bet it lacks narrative arcs and an appreciation for the flow of language. It looks like the 

 book in the history of books! But here’s the thing…it’s still a book. And I love books. So, you do not deserve to even hold it.

 Ugh!

 Ugh…

 Lady, I’ve trained for months. I’ve taken down your helicopters with only a slingshot. I’ve looked at a librarian right in the area where most creatures would have eyes. You do not scare me!

 It doesn’t matter. What matters is that in a few moments, you will start running as fast as you can, in the direction of Desert Bluffs. All right, Book Club! Books as clubs! Go!

 I’m securing this frequency. We’ll keep broadcasting instructions from here. Stay vigilant, Night Vale!

Episode 49 - Old Oak Doors Part B


[Fade in, continuing from just before the point where Part A left off – first part of the sentence in brackets is not heard, but included here for context]

 [And what are we, Night Vale,] without darkness? Without shadows? And without secrets? 

Listeners, there is someone knocking on my station door, which must mean Carlos? Carlos, is that you? Come in, and welcome home, my sweet Car– No.

No no, no, no, no! No. No.

 Uh, Cecil? I was in the neighborhood and I wanted to stop by, and–

 No, 

 You do not get to just “stop by” the studio. You are not a radio professional.

 All right, fair, but…I’ve been driving in circles around your station all day listening to the show, and… and it got me thinking.

You know, John Peters – y– you know, the farmer?

 Yes, I do know.

 Well, he was like, 

 And he’s mostly right. But I think that it’s not a Smiling God, but a secret underground missile testing site.

 No, listen, the Secret Underground Missile Testing Site is below the Rec Center, Steve!

 Well, it’s like the Faceless Old Woman recently said while campaigning, she said 

I think the Faceless Old Woman understands what’s really going on, whereas Hiram is like, 

And then, his blue head is like 

And then Gray says 

And Violet says 

And then his last head just keeps roaring and saying, 

But really, I was thinking about what your boyfriend Carlos said.

 Don’t you dare, Steve Carlsberg!

 So, he said, 

 I am not dating a Munchkin from The Wizard of Oz. That’s not– no.

 You sure?

 I– I’m quite sure.

 All right. Fair enough, but…look, he’s – and no offense, Cecil, but – he’s an outsider. He’s not from here. How do we know he’s not part of the super underground secret military government that is testing missiles?

 Steve Carlsberg! Did you just accuse my boyfriend of being a secret operative?

 Well, um…yeah!

 Because that’d be 

, actually!

 No, it wouldn’t! It’s dangerous!

 That’d be awesome!

 It’s dangerous awesome!

 But– but it is– nevertheless, it is not true, Steve. Plus, how many times do I have to tell you that there is 

 about the secret missile testing? It is as American as using drug-laced apple pie to test the effects of hallucinogens on innocent citizens!

 I think he brings up a good point, Cecil!

 You! How did you get in here?

 Hey, thanks interloper! Whoah, cool eyes!

 Oh, thank you! I wish I could say the same.

Cecil, listen, it’s hard to get work done when there’s all this 

 And it’s hard to smile when there’s no working! And if we aren’t smiling, then what value do we have?

Watch me smile!

 You monster!

 That was really gross! Do it again!

 Look at how much better we all feel from that! But right now, no one is being productive. There are angels–

 Actually, there’s not.

 No, of course not! What?

 There’s– no. Not– nope. Not a thing.

 And a desert army out there battling! For what? For Hooded Figures? For Forbidden Dog Parks? For a Glow Cloud?

[Cecil and Steve together] ALL HAIL!

 For the constant terror of a Secret Police who can invade your home at any time, without so much as a letter from Human Resources?

 But they are 

 Hooded Figures. And it is 

 Glow Cloud!

[Cecil and Steve together] ALL HAIL!

 And this is 

 town! And it is 

. But it is ours. And we…we are fighting for it!

 I used to feel that way about Desert Bluffs.

So many secrets and conspiracies and darkness in our days. It all felt 

 important, so permanent!

But then we met the Smiling God! Oh, it was so wonderful! The sun stopped setting! Or– maybe there wasn’t a sun anymore. Maybe there was just that other…

 light. Who knows? I do know that I couldn’t stop smiling. None of us could! And our smiles seemed better, fuller, wider.

Soon we had no need for government cover-ups, or secrets. Everything was transparent. Literally. You could see through everything and everyone. The bones, the blood, the scurrying insects inside every human body!

There was so much work to be done. And such a wonderful company to do it for! Even the ones that resisted the most at first soon found that they loved the Smiling God more than anyone. Even the most resistant of radio hosts soon found his way to productive work, happy songs, and a wide, gaping smile.

So, let’s do this together, Cecil. Believe with me in a Smiling God! The Greater Night Vale 

 Desert Bluffs Metropolitan Area, a town with not one, but 

 happy, helpful voices.

 Listeners, Kevin has just opened up the studio door, only– it is not the studio door. It is an oak door, and…and light, a blinding light is pouring in, and everything is becoming translucent!

 Do you see, friends? The beautiful majesty of living as one under the unrelenting love of a Smiling God?

 Wow, I mean…it’s a very pretty light. You know, that company picnic of yours sure wasn’t fun, but…I got more done in two weeks than in the rest of my life 

 No! Steve, what are you saying? 

 Kevin, before I step into your weird light, let me ask you about schools real fast. Now, my stepdaughter Janice is ten years old, and…the elementary schools are 

, but I don’t know if I can afford to send her to private school, and she’s a little bit…

 Say no more, Steve Carlsberg! Desert Bluffs schools are top-notch! Young Janice can take college prep courses as early as 12. Our charter schools even have great medical programs, where they can heal her of all her problems.

 I’m sorry, uh, I don’t get it.

 Yeah, um…Janice’s uncle here. What do you mean by “heal her?”

 She can’t walk, right?

 Yeah, I mean…

 Oh no, since birth.

 She can’t.

 Well, rather than build all those crazy ramps and elevators, we just 

 people, so that they can become better, and more productive!

 You are awful, and gross! And I was only being polite about your eyes! They are 

 

 Listeners, Steve Carlsberg has just picked up Kevin by his blood-stained lapels.

 Oooh! Ooh! Oh!

 And– and– and Steve– Steve is carrying him to the open oak door! And– and he just pushed him through into that blinding, awful light!

 Oh, smile!

 And Kevin…is gone.

 I did not like that guy very much.

 Me neither. Um, thanks, Steve.

 Anything for my girl. Try and tell me there’s something about her needs fixin’.

 You know, Steve, uh, we have our differences. 

 many differences. More differences than not, yes.

 Yeah, I understand what you’re saying about the differences.

 But, I am glad that you are there to take care of Janice, and…she could do a lot worse.

 Oh, Cecil!

 Oh, wait, oh!

I…no. Nope, no. Never again. No. Please leave my studio and– and just stop barging in here with your 

 ideas about the world!

 OK! I’ll see ya around, Cecil!

 Great.

 Oh, hey there! Steve Carlsberg! Aren’t you important-looking? Hoo-hoo hoo-hoo!

 Dana! Dana! You are– You’re actually back in the studio! And…this is not just an image or an apparition?

 I am! I’m home! Our time and space finally, 

 meet again!

 Oh, this is a happy, happy day!

 I am so glad to see you too, Cecil! But I also came back to talk to the whole city.

[Clears throat]

People of Night Vale, there is a light drowning out our sun and our minds. But there are angels, and an army of masked warriors fighting back this terrible menace. Night Vale, stay safe! Stay home and do not get caught in the dangerous crossfire. The desert army and the angels, they are here to save us.

 People of night Vale!

 Oh! Uh, Dana! Uh, I’m sorry, Dana, but I think that’s Tamika Flynn from her secret broadcast site.

 People of Night Vale, hear me!

 Tamika? 

 Tamika Flynn! Oh, hi, I’m Dana! I have heard so much about you! You are an inspiration, you are a hero!

 Thank you, Dana, but I am not a hero. Or we all are. Or the word has no meaning.

We must all save our town, and ourselves. People of Night Vale, I’m calling you to arms. There are beings claiming to be angels, and this foreign army of giants fighting. Why can’t we?

 Well, uh– yes, that’s good, but…

 People of Night Vale!

 Oh.

 Angels are definitely real. They are powerful, and recently very wealthy, and they are tough to kill, unlike humans who die easily and unexpectedly all the time from all sorts of little causes. Just wait and let them save us.

 Ahh, I see…

 People of Night Vale, do not be defined by how you can die, but how you can 

 It is like the great writer and orator Booker T. Washington once said, “In all things social, we can be as separate as fingers, yet one as the hand in all things essential to destroying a Smiling God.”

 Stay safe, Night Vale! Stay indoors and we will broadcast to let you know when it’s all over.

 Get out there, Night Vale! Grab anything you can and fight! Grab a slingshot and a book, say an 

 

 

, or Milorad Pavic’s 

 

. Or, if not a book, grab a rock. Or the throwing stars that come standard in most issues of 

. Grab anything you can, and fight!

Do not believe in heroes, believe in citizens. 

 a citizen.

 Dana, I– I– I know that you have planned this well, and you are incredibly smart, but…

 Alright, it’s fine.

 I think Tamika…

 Whatever.

 …might be right.

 Not a big deal.

 Um, no, I– I think we have to…

 I just brought two different armies together, whatever.

 …all do this together, and let us not repeat our sin…

 It’s fine.

 …of inaction, I mean…ugh.

It– It has grown so bright, and I cannot see much. But what I can see is nearly transparent, and…and I am forgetting. And everything is coming apart, and I can see the great glowing coils of the universe unwinding.

Night Vale, our time…our time is now! Let us raise our fists and shout! I can…I can almost hear it. I can almost hear a crowd shouting, “Take down Strex!”

I can almost hear that crowd, but I cannot quite hear them. They need to raise their hands and shout it louder! They need to shout, “Take down Strex!”

Every single one of them!

[audience joins in]

Take! Down! Strex!

Louder!

Take! Down! Strex!

And they scream it!

Take! Down! Strex!

And then, they stop. Not because they do not care, but because they are people that are far away and not part of this story.

They are part of a 

 story, a different fiction.

But, realizing this, they all shrug and sadly murmur to each other, “Take down Strex? Take down Strex? Yeah, take down Strex.”

And then, then they are quiet. And they hope for that rarest element of all. They hope for the best.

But in this story, in this fiction, I– I hear the sound of Night Vale fighting back. And as the light of this Smiling God grows brighter, and as the shouts of this defiant Night Vale grow louder, and as I reach for my own personal copy of Kate Chopin’s 

 (well, more specifically for the tear gas canisters that came attached to the hardback edition), I take all of you, all of us, that are fighting, all of us, together, all of us, all of us, to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

 Cecil, hey. Um, it’s Carlos.

I– I– I hate that I got your voicemail, but listen, I figured it out.

So, we can’t shut the oak doors unless everyone is back where they belong. And every moment those doors are open, more of that light gets through into Night Vale. I couldn’t figure out why we couldn’t just keep the doors closed for good, and it was 

 to have a problem I couldn’t solve. And then I got sad, because I couldn’t solve it. But then I 

 solve it, and I felt so happy! So those are some – but not all – of the emotions that I had.

Here is what I found. Night Vale is a place that is difficult to leave, and difficult to enter, and connecting a place as weird as that with a place as weird as this was causing a lot of…strain ion linear time and space. So…those native to Night Vale, Dana, John, the angry woman in the Intern shirt, all had to return home, and the masked army all had to come back here, which they did. Just moments ago, the last of them came back through the door.

It is so exciting when you make a scientific discovery like that! I was 

 happy!

But then, as the last of the masked army members came through the door, it slammed shut and vanished. And I remembered that I am not from Night Vale.

I remembered that, as far as the laws of the universe are concerned, it is not where I belong.

Cecil, I don’t even remember how I got to Night Vale in the first place. I mean, where 

 Night Vale, even? But I promise I will find a way back. It’ll just take a couple of days, a week max.

I’ll be fine. I’m a 

.

Cecil? A scientist is usually fine.

Maybe a few weeks, I don’t know.

The upside is Dana was right. I have had 97% battery all day, and decent reception! So we’ll at least get to talk every night.

Best of luck at home. I love you.

 Listeners? Night Vale fought together! Every citizen!

High school football coach, Nazr al-Mujaheed, in response to the Strex workers ghastly smiles, showed them that thing that he can do with his tongue, which made many of them stop smiling and run screaming away.

A balaclava-clad man wearing a mitre, cloak, and a giant silver star and speaking through a vocoder – you know, the man that we all believe to be the Sheriff of Night Vale – was dropping heavy bricks down on the invaders from his hover-office in the clouds.

Simone Rigadeau, the transient who lives in the Earth Sciences Building at the Community College, found some experimental fish in the lab closet, and put them into the fuel tanks of the yellow helicopters, which were already incapacitated by several plastic bags that had blown out of the Forbidden Dog Park, and then, you know, wrapped themselves up in the rotors.

And Old Woman Josie, and her supposed “angel” friends, protected the empty lot where she plans to rebuild Night Vale’s Old Opera House.

The Strex attackers were picked up by her winged friends and flown far into the sky, higher than even the Sheriff’s hover-office.

And, of course, a group of teenagers, led by Tamika Flynn, chased out everyone at StrexCorp Headquarters by slingshotting copies of Stephen Covey’s best selling self-help book, 

.

And the civilization of tiny people living below Lane 5 of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex…well, they did 

. I’m– I’m not terribly sure, but, you know, ‘cause they’re too tiny to be noticed amid all the action.

Which is to say, Strex has retreated!

And the blood-covered office workers are gone! And! And the old oak doors, they are also gone. And with them, that penetrating, vicious light, and we are safely in darkness once again.

A 

 wealthy-looking and mostly nude being named Erika, who introduced themselves as…you know, an angel, or 

, then wrote a check to purchase StrexCorp. And, while they are not technically for sale, there was no one to decline the offer, so – according to American business law – that is a legal acquisition!

It is not yet known what the angels will do with the vast corporation they now own, and I think – at last – we are ourselves. We are 

 once again.

Even here, at the station, the office of station management now is just a stone slab covering a dark cave. A pulsing red glow around its edges filling my mind with sad and monstrous visions when I walk past the door.

So it seems like our old management is back in charge!

And that is…well, I 

 that’s a good thing. I think. I mean, it’s possible that that is, in fact, terrifying news, so…I think…I guess…we won!

 Speaking of winning…

 Yes! Right! The election! Okay.

Well, it looks like we didn’t 

 get all of the votes in yet, so we are going to speed things up. Listeners? Listeners, wherever you are listening to this, just follow along.

When I say the name of the candidate you prefer, raise your hand.

So, I will say the name, you raise your hand, and the cameras that are everywhere in town, watching your every move, will count your vote.

So, raise your hand to vote for Hiram McDaniels.

 Oooooooh, I thought there would be more. Do they not like me?

 

 Up!

 All right. OK. Hands down.

Now, raise your hand for the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home.

 I– I am in your home at this very moment. I am, in a way, your guest. It would be rude, as a host, if you did not raise your hand for me while I was sitting right there, unseen, next to you.

 Now, now, now…

 It might make me angry. I’ve never been angry. I wonder what I’m like when I’m angry? It will be interesting for us to find out together if you do not raise your hand for me.

 Oh, OK. OK. Great. Hands down.

Now, I am fairly certain that 

 of you voted for both. And thus, negated yourselves. You’ll know if one of your friends did this, because they will soon fade from existence forever.

 Yup, very good.

 Anyway, that’s all the votes in but, of course, none of the votes matter because the election is decided by the pulses coming from Hidden Gorge. I am now being handed the results by an election official in full uniform – a plague doctor mask, an off-brand Snuggie, and stilts.

And the next mayor of Night Vale is…

 I just wanna thank every person who voted for me. You’re all winners in my book!

 And we’ve recorded all of your names right here in this book.

 I just ate one of your highlighters. I’m sorry. I’m nervous. I’ll replace it with a crow’s feather just as soon as I am mayor.

 Oh. Well, it says here that the next mayor of Night Vale is Dana Cardinal!

 Uhh…heh.

[Crowd chants Dana! Dana! Dana!]

 I–I–I–I–I’m sorry, Cecil, Cecil, I don’t want to get obnoxious about this, but it’s pronounced “Hiram.” That wasn’t even close.

 I– I know, I– I’m sorry, this must be a disappointment to you both, but I– I’m just reading what the Gorge is decreeing.

 Your former 

 Dana? But…she wasn’t even a candidate!

 Yeah, na– oh.

 And she’s so…young and not ancient!

 Well, Dana, the intern who came home, it is – like I told you once – you were always important –

 

 You were always somebody, and now age has uncovered the 

 that was always…

 

 OK. Hiram? Please. I’m– I’m– I’m in the middle of doing something right now.

 Sorry ‘bout him.

 It’s the you that – no, it’s the you that always was, but…I can’t remember what I said.

 She can’t be mayor! She is a murderer! She killed her own double!

 Well, now, now, now, I don’t know if “murder” should necessarily disqualify someone from being…

 Irrelevant. There is a 50% chance that the victim was Dana 

 and not Dana 

.

 Oh yeah, thanks, Blue. Forget that other thing I was saying about murder. She has no proof that she is not a double of herself.

 That’s right, there’s no proof of…

 Everybody knows that being a double is one of the few manifestations of reality that cannot be Night Vale mayor! I do not accept these results. I am continuing my campaign, and I will make sure that Dana does not stay mayor for long.

 And I find myself agreeing with the Faceless Old Woman. We will not rest until one of us is rightfully mayor.

 

 Exactly, Green, yes. Exactly that.

 Now, I really must object to 

 of this.

 Come, Hiram. You and I have planning to do.

 Yeah.

 Well. Once again, it’s just you and me, listeners. The bustle of this day has come and gone. And now, there is the quiet night.

The universe is unraveling. It still is. We won the day. We won the battle. We won whatever unit of measurement you care to say that we won. We returned to the dangerous equilibrium we had before, which we can only assume, or hope, or wish is better. But, of course, we did not stop the unraveling of the universe. The universe is not a thing that is, it is not a 

 at all. It is the very action of its going. It is, in fact, its own dissolves and our lives – the entire span of human existence going back and back and, if we are lucky, forward and forward – the entire span is spent within this dissolve.

So look at the fleeting stars with fleeting eyes, and feel how the earth beneath you gives. It is all a temporary manifestation of particles, and it is all unraveling back to particulate silence. The bustle of the human day will come and will go. And then there will be night.

But how beautiful these moments within the dissolve! What a temporary perfection we can find within this passing world! Everything good ever done! Everything good that was done today, and all the good people doing it, and back and back and forward and forward, all of that beauty within a universe unraveling.

Be proud of your place in the cosmos. It is small, and yet it 

. How unlikely! How fantastic! And stupid. And excellent. And…

I’m sorry. I– I’m sorry, um, it looks like I have a voicemail from Carlos. He must have called during the weather. Um, I apologize, listeners, I– I have to check this, so…stay tuned next for more of us and more of me, until that inevitable distant point where I and this and everything must end.

And as always…goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 5 - The Shape in Grove Park


Close your eyes. Let my words wash over you. You are safe now.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Local historians are protesting the removal of the Shape in Grove Park that No One Acknowledges or Speaks About. While their protest has been hampered by the fact that none of them will acknowledge or speak about it, they did – through a system of gestures and grimaces – convey the message that, whatever the Shape is, and whatever its effects on nearby neighborhoods, it is a Night Vale landmark and should be protected.

The Shape itself offered no comment – only a low moaning and gelatinous quiver. The City Council would not provide any reason for the removal, but did say that any work in Grove Park was making way for a new swing set, picnic area, and bloodstone circle, which we all can agree are good contributions to the community.

The Night Vale Green Market Co-Op announced today that, after fifteen years, they will begin selling fruits and vegetables. Green Market Board President Tristan Cortez said that recent customer surveys indicated that shoppers have grown tired of empty pickup trucks and vacant tents lining the City Hall parking lot every Sunday morning in the summer and fall.

Cortez said that research indicates that consumers are more likely to 

 products if they are available and for sale, and that Green Market and Grocery shoppers tend to purchase 

 items. 

When reached for comment, our source within the Secret Police only breathed heavily into the phone while tapping and as-yet uncracked code into the receiver.

Michael Sandero, starting quarterback for the Night Vale Scorpions, has reportedly grown a second head. It is not currently known whether this is a result of the previously reported lightning strike, or just another odd coincidence in the kid’s odd life.

People in the know say that the new head is better looking and smarter than the first one, and even Michael’s mother has issued a statement indicating that she likes it much better than her son and that she will be changing the rankings on the public “Which of My Children I Like Best” board outside her house.

Sandero could not be reached for comment.

Probably.

We didn’t try.

Friends, listeners; there’s a real tarantula problem here in Night Vale. Many residents have called in to report that illiteracy, unwanted pregnancy, and violent crime are on the rise in the tarantula communities. Animal control is addressing these concerns through after school programs called “Teach a Spider to Read – Stop the Madness.”

Those interesting in volunteering should stand in their bathtubs and weep until it is all gone.

Nothing left.

You can let go now.

Let go.

Shhhhh.

Let go.

And now a message from our sponsor.

Tired of your home? Sick of comfort? Come to the Hole in the Vacant Lot out back of the Ralph’s and huddle with Us.

Who are we? Good question.

Come to the Hole in the Vacant Lot out back of the Ralph’s and huddle with Us.

Why do we want you to come? Why did we spend money for this airtime? We understand you are confused.

But: Hole, Vacant Lot, Ralph’s, huddle, Us.

For the low-low price. Act today. Or tomorrow. Not Wednesday. Wednesday is no good for Us.

Anyway, we’re almost out of airtime, so just come on down to the Hole in the Vacant Lot out back of the Ralph’s and huddle with Us.

Or else.

Back to our regularly scheduled programming.

Ladies and gentlemen, the rumor mill is abuzz. We’ve had a celebrity sighting in our little burgh!

Old Woman Josie and one of her angel friends reportedly saw Rita Hayworth getting gas at the Fuel ‘n Go over by the bowling alley. Rita Hayworth, ladies and gentlemen! Right here in Night Vale. Can you believe it? Old Woman Josie said Rita was looking a bit older, moderately obese, and considerably more Hispanic, but the angel assured her it was indeed Rita. He is an angel after all…he would know, right? Wow! Rita Hayworth! Right here in Night Vale! Just imagine!

Update on the Shape Formerly in Grove Park that No One Acknowledges or Speaks About: it seems the City Council, in their superhuman mercy and all-seeing glory have chosen to move the Shape directly in front of our own radio station, where it is continuing to be what can only be described as…indescribable.

The Shape was not available for comment as I could find no one willing to speak to it…or even meet my eye when I mentioned it. 

The Night Vale Community Theater is holding auditions for its fall show “Once On This Island.” Interested thespians should bring a head shot and resume to the Recreation Center auditorium on Thursday night.

All auditionees must perform a one-minute monologue and sing one song. Bring sheet music if you would like piano accompaniment. Auditionees will also be required to do a cold reading, and give blood and stool samples along with mandatory radiation testing following the auditions.

Do 

 sing anything from South Pacific. People of color are urged to audition, as Night Vale Community Theater is an equal-opportunity employer. Also, actors with long-range sniper training, FORTRAN computer programming, and top-notch wilderness survival skills are a plus.

Final casting will be announced in secret via dirigible.

No one can ever know.

Update on the Green Market situation from earlier in our broadcast. Everything is exactly the same as when we last reported on it. There is no new information.

Listeners, do you ever think about the moon? I was sitting outside last night looking at the moon and I thought, does anyone actually know what that thing is? Have there been any studies on this? 

The moon’s weird though, right? It’s there, and there, and then suddenly it’s not. And it seems to be pretty far up. It is watching us? If not, what 

 it watching instead? Is there something more interesting than us? Hey, watch us moon! We may not always be the 

 show in the universe, but we 

.

This has been today’s Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

Speaking of which, the Night Vale School District has announced some changes to the elementary school curriculum. They are as follows:

In response to parent feedback, history class will focus more heavily on textbook readings and traditional exams, rather than live ammo drills.

Geology is adding a new type of rock on the grounds that it’s been a while since anyone has done that. The new type of rock is “vimbee,” and it is categorized by its pale blue color, and the fact that it is completely edible. Points will be awarded to the first student to discover a real-world example of it.

Math and English are switching names. Their curriculum will stay exactly the same.

Astronomy will now be conducting stargazing sessions only with blindfolds on every participant, in order to protect them from the existential terror of the void.

Also, Pluto has been declared imaginary.

All classrooms will be equipped with at least one teacher physically present for the entire instruction period. Astral projection will no longer be used in any classroom situation.

Finally, in addition to the current foreign language offerings of Spanish, French, and Modified Sumerian, schools will now be offering Double Spanish, Weird Spanish, Coptic Spanish, Russian, and Unmodified Sumerian.

And now a continuation of our previous investigation into whether I am literally the only person in the world, speaking to myself in a fit of madness caused by my inability to admit the tragedy of my own existence.

Leland, our newest intern, recently brought me a cup of coffee. He is no longer in my field of vision, but I 

 still have the cup of coffee, which is well made and is given me the needed pick-me-up to continue considering this terrifying possibility.

Is it possible that I only 

 Leland, and forgot making myself this cup of coffee? But then, who would have 

 this coffee? Where was this coffee cup procured from?

Oh, Leland’s back in the room. He’s waving at me – hello, Leland – and he’s saying…wait, what was that, Leland?

I see.

He’s saying that the Shape has turned a molten red and is causing small whirlwinds in front of our radio station doors. There is apparently a sound of a great many voices chanting as though it were an army giving out a battle cry before raining down destruction on our arid little hamlet.

Oh?

He has stopped shouting, and is now writing furiously on a piece of paper.

I have to say, Leland’s existence, as well as his finally speaking about the Shape that No One Else Would Speak About, has reassured me greatly about my lonely and solipsistic vigil here at this microphone.

He is handing me the note – thank you, Leland – lemme see here…a

It says that the City Council believes the reason for the violent reaction of the Shape Formerly in Grove Park that No One Acknowledges or Speaks About is because I have been acknowledging and speaking about it, which has made it angry. They urge me to stop speaking of it, and never do it again, and in exchange they’ll move it somewhere else so we can get our front loading zone back.

After brief consideration…I have decided to accept the Council’s offer, because they are trustworthy leaders looking out for our better future, and also because Leland just got vaporized by a strange red light emanating from the station entrance.

To the family of Leland, we thank you for his service to the cause of community radio, and join you in mourning his loss.

And, without further ado, nor ever again mentioning anything we shouldn’t, let’s go to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Hello listeners.

In breaking news, the 

. The 

. 

Existence as an unchanging plane with horizons of birth and death in the faint distance.

We have nothing to speak about. There never was. Words are an unnecessary trouble. Expression is time wasting away. Any communication is just a yelp in the darkness.

Ladies, gentlemen, listeners, 

.

I am speaking now but I am saying nothing. I am just making noises and, as it happens, they are organized in words and you should not draw meaning from this.

The service for Leland will be lovely. We will throw flowers and weep. He will be buried in the break room as is the custom. His family will come and moon about the coffee as though we have answers.

We do not have answers. I am not certain that we even have questions. 

This is Cecil, generally, speaking to you, metaphorically, for Night Vale Community Radio.

And I would like to say in the most nebulous terms possible, and with no real world implications or insinuations of objective meaning:

Goodnight, listeners. 

Episode 50 - Capital Campaign


Home is where the heart is. We found it one day in the sink. It hums things late at night, but they are not songs.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

If there’s one thing I’ve learned as a proud citizen of Night Vale, it’s that horses are incredibly susceptible to suggestions from government satellites. But I’ve 

learned that Night Vale is a community that cares about education. Night Vale is a community that 

 education. Night Vale is a community that allows education to happen the way terrified campers allow bears to eat their food.

“Education is important,” say whispers with no obvious source we all hear every night.

College graduation rates in our little town are above the national average. We bravely continue to promote literacy in spite of the terrible dangers associated with books. Our truancy rates have significantly declined, due to the Sheriff’s Secret Police’s program of humane, low-fatality taserings.

So, I know we can count on all of you to support the Night Vale Community College Capital Campaign, which was launched this past Monday to fund the establishment of a new Science Center for students.

Science, I 

 believe, is 

 important.

College president Sarah Sultan announced, “In our present, rapidly changing technological environment, it is more important than ever to encourage students to consider study and careers in all the sciences. 

” she added, pretending she was coughing. “Nobody 

 about Astronomy,” she said, obviously under a cough.

Reporters stood quiet and confused about how President Sultan could make such an announcement, as she is a smooth, fist-sized river rock, and has no visible mouth, and likely no internal organs, muscles, or passageways that can create a human-sounding voice.

“

,” President Sultan said with a cough. “It’s telepathy, you guys,” she said in all of our minds.

Fundraising opportunities like these can make a 

 different to small local colleges. So please, Night Vale, consider making a contribution.

As always, you can give to the Capital Campaign by burying your check, cash, or credit card donation in warm, wet earth, and whispering “

”

I’ve gotten a lot of calls, emails, telegrams, and sympathetic glances the past couple of weeks, from people who are wondering if Carlos the scientist has returned from the Other World desert he is trapped in. And here I remind you that he 

 trapped there while saving our city from treacherous dark forces. I remind you 

. I remind you that my boyfriend is a hero.

Sadly, Carlos is still in the desert – the same desert our new mayor was once trapped in. Fortunately, as Dana discovered, cell phone batteries last 

 there, and there’s pretty good wifi, despite there being just vast amounts of sand and…apparently, a 

. But if our mayor can make it out fine, I think a scientist can too. Scientists are 

 fine.

Listeners? I’ve been seeing all the reviews for that new restaurant, Tourniquet. Sounds like executive chef LaShawn Mason has created a real culinary hit! It’s almost impossible to get a reservation there. I tried to get a table for…for just one, of course, and the nearest available date was not for another two months! And even then, it wasn’t a reservation for Tourniquet, but for Applebee’s. Actually, you know what? I think I’ve been looking at the Applebee’s website. It’s very easy to misspell Tourniquet. Anyway.

Gia Samuels’ review in the latest issue of the Night Vale Daily Journal mentioned Tourniquet sous chef Earl Harlan, and that surprised me. He was a childhood friend of mine, and I had no idea he was a professional chef! It also surprised me because he was dragged away screaming by the herd of mute children at last year’s Eternal Scout ceremonies. Very few 

 survive Boy Scout Courts of Honor – especially not those dragged away by the mute children – so it’s good to see Earl back home and safe, and likely returning to his volunteer duties as scoutmaster! I hope, one day, I can get a reservation to his fine restaurant.

Umm, let me see…nope, nothing. Oh! Wait! Yes! Yes! I got one! I– oh. Nope. No, I’m on the Applebee’s website again. Nevermind.

An update on the progress of the Night Vale Community College Capital Campaign:

Thanks to the generous donations of Night Vale citizens, the campaign has already reached 30% of its target goal. A particularly notable gift was made by local eccentric recluse and proud alumna, Mrs. Sylvia Wickersham. The college fundraising staff was caught off guard by this donation, as no one has heard from or seen Mrs. Wickersham in over a decade. Also, the gift was a fine porcelain vase, filled with two dozen English Angora rabbits.

College representatives expressed their gratitude for Mrs. Wickersham’s generous and 

 contribution, of course, but would like to remind the greater community that it is 

 that donations be made via cash, check, credit card, spinal columns, or other common negotiable currencies.

“Money,” college representatives added helpfully, through the narrow crack of a slightly-lifted manhole cover on Main Street. “You know, the kind you use to procure goods and services when you still have a physical form,” they added in spray-painted bubble graffiti on the side of an abandoned warehouse near the train tracks.

More on this as there is more on this.

Night Vale, our new leader is almost here! This Friday is Inauguration Day for our new mayor, Dana Cardinal, who used to be an intern at this very radio station! Dana 

 in fact be the most successful intern this station has ever had. So few of our interns have ever gone on to do 

. Important. Gone on to do anything important.

Inauguration of new mayors includes a swearing in ceremony that takes place behind a think velvet curtain. The curtain is raised a few inches, and all the press and public are shown a few shuffling feet and hear loud, high-pitched shouts. They mayoral swearing in ceremony is the one point in Night Vale’s political calendar where citizens may voice their opinions and beliefs without risking reprisal or imprisonment. They are, in fact, 

 to shout even the most 

 beliefs and thoughts during the ceremony – openly, and without fear.

The event will take place in an undisclosed location 200 miles from Downtown Night Vale and will be exactly two minutes long.

Former mayoral candidates, the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home and Hiram McDaniels, who is 

 a five-headed dragon, have both declared this a botched election and are filing for a recount by shouting their complaints into the side of a canyon wall they think 

 be Hidden Gorge. No one can tell exactly where Hidden Gorge is, which is how it got its name: 

.

It doesn’t matter. I’m ecstatic for our new mayor! It’ll be weird having a former intern as a leader, but I just think she’ll do a wonderful job! Congratulations, old young friend!

I’ve just been informed that Mrs. Sylvia Wickersham has made another large donation to the Night Vale Community College Capital Campaign, this one consisting of 1,000 live and extremely fluffy rabbits. The Capital Committee is beginning to have difficulty finding space on campus to house her donations. What foliage existed on campus has been immediately devoured. Several of the botany program’s greenhouses have been broken into and ransacked. And many of the rabbits have reportedly entered the Student Center, refusing to wait in line before ordering at the snack bar, and taking 

 more napkins than they need.

In order to make the most of this impressive endowment, the Capital Committee is currently discussing the possibility of…

 some of the rabbits towards resident’s life operations. English Angora rabbits are well-known for their thick, soft, silky wool – so the college’s Student Housing Office feels this presents an opportunity to make new blankets and rugs and hats and blindfolds for students, as well as winter cloaks for the coyote-faced advisers that lurk about the Student Programs Office.

Representatives have attempted to contact Mrs. Wickersham to discuss the possible redistribution of her generous gifts, bu without success. More curiously, when attempting to visint Mrs. Wickersham’s home, committee members were informed by her neighbors that they have never actually 

 Mrs. Wickersham, but they often have dreams of her.

“I mean, she never looks like herself,” each of the neighbors stated. “Generally she appears as a hovering green box that pulses with light, and her voice sounds like an oboe playing a whole note, but like, in the dream kind of way where I 

 know it’s her,” they concluded.

Some committee members raised questions about how an incorporeal dream-being could donate wild animals, and also if maybe…she could stop doing that. Those members were quietly removed from the room by other committee members.

In any case, Night Vale, let us hold Mrs. Wickersham in our thoughts – and of course, dreams – and hope for her safe return. Or, possibly for an end to her rabbit donations. Both would be nice, but…let’s not be greedy Night Vale! We all take what we can get in this life, you know? We take what we can get.

Ahh, bad news from the Night Vale Community College, listeners. A donation of 5,000 English Angora rabbits in the name of Mrs. Sylvia Wickersham have just arrived at the college’s fundraising headquarters. It’s uncertain how they found their way there, as said headquarters had already been relocated to the Underground Emergency Fundraiser-Related Disaster Bunker, constructed in the 1970s by Dr. Erless Bedermayer, the Community College’s all-time second-least popular president.

As of last report, the rabbits have invaded and taken over control of fundraising headquarters – using dedicated telephone lines to make personal calls, uttering 

 remarks about the body types of students and staff, and tilting the vending machines in 

 violation of safety labeling.

Simone Rigadeau, the transient who lives in the Earth Sciences building, says these are typical behaviors for this breed of rabbit, and that she is not surprised. She also repeated her claim that the world ended more than 30 years ago, before grunting some French cuss words and disappearing into a small, round hole in the wall.

The 6,800 rabbits – more rabbits now than students – are running amok throughout campus. They have disrupted lectures and shown 

 disrespect for faculty, they have joined academic and social organizations, and are engaged in 

. There are even reports that these vulgar, cuddly rodents broke into the college president’s office and licked visciously on President Sultan for several minutes before her administrative assistant could free her.

Listeners, this is an urgent situation. These rabbits – well, 

 rabbits, really – are a menace, and they now have access to all the advantages of higher education. I advise you to lock your bookshelves, eat your diplomas, and place any vulnerable stones or rocks in your home on high inaccessible shelves. If you see a rabbit, do not attempt to engage it in debate on post-structuralism, semiotics, gender politics, or sporting events.

Even as I speak to you college officials and the Sheriff’s Secret Police are desperately searching for Mrs. Wickersham, hoping top mitigate some of the damage that is being done.

I hope they find her, Night Vale! I hope that the rabbits do not find 

! I hope that we all find something – or someone – that can keep the light on a little longer against the endless pressing dark.

And in the meantime, I take you now to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

We have received information that agents of the Sheriff’s Secret Police broke down the door to Mrs. Sylvia Wickersham’s neo-Victorian home on the east side of town. Their search of the house found it completely empty and uninhabited, with the exception of a small green tree lizard sunning itself in the front parlor.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police grabbed the lizard and were on the verge of 

 it, as none of them had had lunch that day – well, I mean…some raisins and a few roasted almonds, but that’s not 

 a full lunch, and lizards are a complete protein – but the Capital Compaign Committee stopped them.

“This is Mrs. Wickersham,” said a committee member.

“

 is Mrs. Wickersham?” said the Secret Policeperson.

“Yes,” the committee member said, explaining further that Mrs. Wickersham was a “

” to the college. At certain levels, donors receive benefits like mugs, or tote bags, or names carved into blood stones. At higher levels, donors receive very 

 benefits, like being able to invade the dreams of their neighbors, or having all of their belongings taken from their home, or…being transformed, permanently, into a tree lizard.

“Most of our benefactors choose a Gila, or skink, or chunkwalla,” the committee member said, quoting from the college’s own fundraising brochure as the lizard form of Mrs. Wickersham dangled and squirmed above the Sheriff’s Secret Policeperson’s gaping purple maw.

“Mrs. Wickersham takes a lot of pride in her alma mater,” the committee member explained, “and she has donated 

 to the college. None of it has ever been 

, but she is a valued donor to the community,” continued the committee member, as a brass band somewhere else in the world,and completely unrelated to this story, played eighth notes quickly, but softly.

“Why did you make a big fuss about it and call us here?” said the Secret Policeperson.

“Oh, that?” said the committee member, shrugging. “It was just, uh…good publicity for our Capital Campaign.”

The Sheriff’s Secret Police coaxed the tree lizard into a comfortable vivarium filled with fresh reptile bark, wrote EVIDENCE on the side of it in Sharpie, and removed it to an undisclosed location near the microwave in the Secret Police breakroom.

In her absence, Mrs. Wickersham’s next-of-kin was found to 

 be her dry cleaner, Ben Burnham, who was amenable to the idea of retracting Mrs. Wickersham’s donation – more specifically, what he said was “Yeah, sure, whatever. What do I care? All the colleges are just factories for little 

 these days anyway. BEEP-BOOP-BEEP-BOOP! Free health care for everybody! BEEP-BOOP-BEEP-BOOP-BEEP-BOOP I’m a robot!”

Then he began to – without breaking eye contact – eat the plastic hanging bags on his desk, starting from the top and working his way down.

The rabbits have been removed, and re-donated to the Night Vale Petting Zoo. This worked out well, since until today the Night Vale Petting Zoo has only ever housed emaciated wolves. But now, thanks to Mr. Burnham’s donation (on behalf of Mrs. Wickersham) of nearly 8,000 cuddly rabbits, those wolves will not be hungry again for months!

Despite all interruptions, the Night Vale Community College Capital Campaign has actually surpassed it’s undisclosed goal, and construction of the Science Center is slated to begin this coming Summer.

The Capital Committee would like to extend its thanks to everyone who donated. A community that cares for education, after all, is a community that cares for its future – with all the fear and respect and awe that the future is due.

Knowledge may be terrible, but we can only prefer it to ignorance. Light may be terrible, but we can only prefer it to the dark.

Stay tuned next for a reality that cannot possibly match expectations.

And as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 51 - Rumbling


 Look! Up in the sky! It’s a bird! It’s a plane! It’s a cloud! It’s a moon! Also, some stars! There are so many things in the sky!

Welcome to Night Vale. 

New Night Vale mayor, and former intern at this very station, Dana Cardinal announced today that she wants to open the Dog Park for public use. Said Dana – or, I guess I should start saying Mayor Cardinal – “Dog parks should be used for dogs and owners to exercise and play. A dog park should be a fun gathering place for citizens to meet and socialize. 

 a secretive patch of municipal darkness full of conspiracy warning signs.”

Only moments into her announcement, the City Council entered the Press Room, walking in synchronous steps, hips together, teeth apart, blocking the view of reporters and photographers, and unplugging the mayor’s microphone. The Council shuffled away to the Council Chambers, taking the mayor with them.

Twenty minutes later Mayor Cardinal reemerged, wearing several large ivory rings and a long cerulean cape. She announced that dogs are 

 in the Dog Park. People are 

 in the Dog Park. You may see hooded figures in the Dog Park – but not for long, as there are now plans to reinforce the fence around the Dog Park.

Oh, listeners! Guess who we’ve got on the phone line now? I’ll give you a hint: he saved Night Vale a few weeks ago by shutting out a great terror trying to invade us from another world.

 It wasn’t just me!

 Also, he’s my boyfriend. And a scientist. And I miss him.

 I miss you, too.

 That’s right! My boyfriend is a hero. Please welcome to our show, Carlos the Scientist.

 [chuckles] You’re too much!

 Listeners, Carlos had to stay behind in whatever strange desert Other World, which was very brave of him, even though he’s now very far away from people that love him. Any luck getting back through to Night Vale?

 Not yet. Oh! But, I’ve been exploring this strange rumbling noise here. It’s the same rumbling noise we heard when that terrible light was coming into Night Vale.

 Are you safe? Is everything OK?

 Actually, there it is again. When we shut the doors the rumbling and the unbearably bright light went away. This empty desert, with the mountain and the lighthouse and the large wandering army, all seemed so normal, you know? But last night the rumbling returned.

There it is again. I need to grab my instruments.

 I…I can’t hear it!

 I’ll call you back.

 No! No! Carlos, I…Ugh. Every time. I never know when you’ll call back.

Well, speaking of the town being safe, our neighboring town, Desert Bluffs, ran a full-page ad in the Sunday Extra-Large Imagination Edition of the Night Vale Daily Journal this week that said, I imagined, “Thank you for having us, Night Vale. Best of luck in your future‽”

I can’t tell if that’s an exclamation point or a question mark there. What a weird font! It’s like someone put paint, or some other thick liquid on the tip of a sharp finger and then hand wrote this ad. It’s just like that.

Then, at the bottom, it has a photo of your face, dear listener! And the same finger-painted lettering that reads, “Blessings from a Smiling God.”

Wow! Where did they get that photo of you? Although, honestly, it’s not a 

 photo…I mean, you look just adorable when you’re sleeping!

I know this farewell ad may seem like a kind gesture, but…good riddance to those monsters! No one is happier than me to see us run Desert Bluffs out of town.

Meanwhile, there has been a lot of construction noise, like horns, see-saws, parrot shrieking, et cetera, from the old StrexCorp headquarters at the lip of Radon Canyon. Several tall beings with wings, who all introduce themselves as Erika, were seen hanging around outside while a Sheriff’s Secret Police representative ran frantically between onlookers, putting her hand over each person’s eyes and shouting, “You’re not seeing anything real!”

Well I, for one, am excited to learn what these…of course, completely 

-existent angels plan to do with the huge malevolent corporation they purchased.

Oh! Also, I stopped by the office of station management. Seems like our community radio station was purchased back from StrexCorp by our original owners, whom I have never met – or seen – and who, until recently, had run this radio station for centuries. It’s nice to have all these familiar faces back! Or…not 

, more like muffled screams and chattering echoes and pulsing orange lights surrounding dark stone doors that are never in the same place you remember them being.

Just a quick stroll past the new old boss’ office brought me back to the good old days, as I crumbled to the floor, struck numb and blind with flashes of hideous daydreams, a history’s worth of deaths that were not my own. How great to be back to the way we were!

Ahh, the good old days! The fearful, terrible, deadly, good old days!

Oh, my phone’s buzzing! Carlos? Hello? Carlos, are you back on the line?

 Yes. So…there’s a lighthouse here in the desert. It’s on top of a tall mountain, and there’s a blinking red light on the top of this lighthouse, and this blinking red light always blinks, OK? That’s what it does. But now that the rumbling has returned…can– can you hear the rumbling from your end, Cecil?

 No.

 It’s very loud! But when the rumbling happens, the blinking red light stops blinking. It just stays on.

 What do you think that means?

 I don’t know! I’ve talked with some of the army of men and women and others who roam about this desert, and they look frightened. They have never seen the blinking light stop blinking! It is what a blinking light is supposed to do, and fear is what happens when a thing that has always behaved one way does not behave that way at all. They run and hide now when they hear the rumbling and see the static red light up on the mountain. I, too, am starting to feel scared.

 Carlos? Remember how you got into that desert in the first place. You went through a door in a house that did not seem to exist. Have you found any of those doors yet?

 Not yet, no.

 Carlos? Look for those doors. There must be at least one left somewhere!

 I’ll start looking very soon, OK? But listen, Cecil? I’d really like to figure out this rumbling/red light thing. I’m a scientist. I need to discover/understand things. It’s what I do!

 But…couldn’t you look for the door 

 you figure it out?

 I’ll look for the door some tomorrow. For sure I will.

 Well, that’s not what I was going to…

 The rumbling’s gone! Did you hear that?

Carlos: I’ve got to run. I need to find Doug.

 Who’s Doug? Wait, Carlos, who’s Doug? Carlos?

OK.

Well, I guess let’s just have a look at today’s horoscopes.

 Need a penny, take a penny. Have a penny? Take another penny! Pennies are worthless, but go ahead and take them all. Build a great fortune only to have its great copper weight crush your lifeless pauper body.

 Don’t shoot the messenger, Virgo! It’s noisy, and will alert others of your crime. Lure the messenger inside. Make sure no one saw him come in. Choose something quieter than a gun. Perhaps suffocation, or an accidental fall. Really plan these things out. Stop being so trigger happy, Virgo!

 Do you believe in ghosts? You don’t? Well, won’t 

 be surprised when you wake up in the middle of the night tonight! Scream loud enough so the neighbors can hear you.

 You are respected by your peers. You are a great thinker and leader. You…wait, what is this? This is definitely not the right reading for a Scorpio, it must be a typo. I bet the stars 

 to say: You should hear what they’re saying about you. Very funny things, Scorpio! They’re saying very funny things at your expense, you jerk! Yep, that’s definitely what the stars meant to say.

 The best revenge is living well. The second-best is tasteless slow-acting poison. Maybe it’s more of a tie. Either way, you got wronged, and you need to set things right, Sagittarius!

 ‘Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all, which is better than to have never loved at all, but also somehow lost a love, thus creating a paradox. Paradoxes are 

, Capricorn. Be careful, or logic will destroy you.

 Your boyfriend is trapped in an alternate desert dimension. It is difficult to say when he will return. Perhaps take up drinking while crying in a quiet room.

Wow! That’s a very specific and…

 horoscope. Thanks for nothing, stars!

 A train leaves a station traveling west at 40 miles per hour. Another train leaves a station traveling east at 60 miles per hour. These two trains left on different days, in different years, in different countries. How long until the passengers acknowledge their own impermanence?

 I think they saw you, Aries. Hold still. They cannot see you if you do not move. Shhhhhh! Don’t move! Don’t move! Don't– Nope, they saw you. So long, Aries!

 Someone misses you a lot, Taurus. And even though you have nothing but endless time trapped out in a nightmarish desert hellscape, you have a hard time making a phone call longer than ten minutes. Maybe call a bit more than you do, Taurus!

Yep, that’s just some astrological advice from the stars.

 You know those eight spiders a year you eat in your sleep? Well, they add up. They are all organizing a pretty dramatic escape. Very soon, Gemini! Very soon!

 “The ocean is vast,” you convince yourself, walking alone between the trees. “The sky is endless,” you mutter repeatedly, trying to finally lull yourself to sleep. “Matter can neither be created nor destroyed,” you contemplate, despite not understanding the first part of the statement. “What’s on the Food Network tonight?” you say aloud to a stranger you have known for years.

This has been today’s horoscopes.

Ah! He’s calling in again! Carlos?

 Cecil, the rumbling has started again. The mountain is moving up and down, like…breathing. There are creaks and groans in the earth, in the stones, that together sound like a growl, an undulating snarl of something much bigger than anything that should ever be able to snarl.

Cecil, this is a strange place, and considering where I’ve lived for the past couple years, that says 

. I know Dana used to be trapped here and she has told you about it. I mean, I used to wonder how she could call and text you from this place for an entire year with no cell towers or power outlets, but I’ve been here for weeks and I have three bars (only 4G, but still), and 97% battery, which was the charge I had when I came through the door in the House that Doesn’t Exist.

In a temporary peace between the rumblings, I walked with some of the desert army toward a small patch of discolored sand. We found a swath of damp dirt, just a handful of red mud, and in that mud were several tiny white bones. Looked like long legs and short wings of a creature I can’t even imagine! I look forward to figuring out exactly what this is. I’ll be able to imagine it then!

 Carlos, I don’t think it’s safe there! Listen, I want you to find a way to–

 Cecil? Nothing and nowhere is safe. But there are things greater than us. Greater than all of this (so, you can’t see it, but I just made a big sweeping hand gesture to indicate everything in the universe), and there are people who must learn about it all. How it all works, and why. This is what we call science!

 Yes, I know what science is.

 And I am a scientist.

 OK, I understand. Ugh. It’s just…it’s just that I miss you, and–

[rumbling sound in the background]

 Oh! Oh my! The building is shaking!

 You can 

 it? You can feel the rumbling? Ooh, this is 

 Wait, this is new! The ground is moving very quickly. There is a large lump churning the sound up and down, I’m leaning out over this ledge to get a better view of this fantastic event, and….ow!

 Carlos! What happened?

 I got hit. What is that? Is that a rock? Oww!

 Carlos!

 Cecil, the rocks are coming down. They’re coming down the side of this hill. I need to take cover, I need to find a–

 Carlos. Carlos?

Listeners, while the earth still shakes, take shelter. This does not feel like one of our government-scheduled earthquakes, but if I were you I would still do as the earthquake safety mascot, Duncan the Brown Recluse Spider, always says: “I’m small, and I hide a lot, so it’s easy to be safe.”

And with that, I take you now to the weather.

[“

” by 

 and 

]

 Carlos, are you there? Carlos?

 I’m here.

 Are you OK?

 I’m fine. A scientist is 

 fine. Doug was really helpful!

 Who is Doug?

 He’s one of the members of this great masked army. He must be a captain of some sort, given his size and the respect he appears to garner. As the rocks and boulders came down, Doug picked up a large, flat stone and held it above us. The rocks bounced off his makeshift shield.

Unfortunately, I dropped my phone. I smashed the phone something good. I thought I lost you for a while there, Cecil. I was despairing that my one way to reach you would be lost for who knows how long. But then, you know what? Something really amazing happened! Something tremendous! The phone 

!

 Oh! That’s…that’s great!

 It is great! But phones don’t just heal themselves. This is another scientific mystery I can’t wait to get to the bottom of.

 Where is Doug now?

 Oh, I don’t know. He’s probably back at the encampment. They’re a nomadic army. Sometimes they are here, sometimes not. I don’t really have time to make new friends. They’re nice people, but there is a lot of work for me to do here. And…the only person I truly care about isn’t in this desert anyway.

I do not know what the rumbling is. I do not know why some doors work and others do not. I do not know why my phone never loses battery power and can heal itself. I do not know how long it will take me to pursue this knowledge.

But I do know two things.

 What is that?

 I love you.

 I love you, too. What’s the other thing?

 You just said it.

Cecil? I have to go. Be patient with me. We have our phones. We have our voices, and you have the best voice of them all.

 Thanks for being on the air with me. We did almost the entire show together!

 We can still do things together, even in absence. I’ll be back again soon.

 Find that door, Carlos!

 I will. But first I need to see if the red light is blinking again or not.

 OK. Bye, Carlos.

Listeners, I wish I could tell you where the rumbling came from, and that we are safe from it. The Sheriff’s Secret Seismology Team announced that today’s rumbling, which caused quite a bit of structural damage and knocked out power for one third of the town, did not register at all on the Richter scale, which is a thing seismologists use to assign two-dimensional numbers to complex multidimensional physical events.

But the upshot is we are all alive for however many two-dimensional numbers we have left.

Stay tuned next for the sound of future becoming the present – becoming the past – in no time at all.

And as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 52 - The Retirement of Pamela Winchell


Now is your chance.

Well, that was it. It’s over. Did you do it? Have you achieved what you wanted?

No? Aah, well.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Former mayor Pamela Winchell called an emergency press conference today to announce that she is enjoying her retirement immensely, and she could not be happier to no longer be mayor.

“More happiness is not possible,” she wailed. “Happiness is a fool’s daydream.”

She was then reminded by reporters that she is no longer mayor, and so shouldn’t be calling emergency press conference s, especially when there is none of the usual emergencies happening – like seeing an interesting butterfly, eating a very good sandwich, or being disappointed that it is 2:00 already.

I sought a statement from current mayor Dana Cardinal who is, of course, a former intern and dear friend of mine. I found her at the end of a dark hallway, draped with rotting black cloth and thick with cobwebs, where she was sitting on the Mayoral Throne and contemplating her hands.

“I thought it would be different than this,” she said. “But it’s exactly what it is.”

I asked her specifically her thoughts on former mayor Pamela Winchell continuing to call emergency press conferences.

“Oh!” Mayor Dana said. And then, again, “Oooh.” And then, “She can do that if she wants. I’m too busy these days to do press conferences anyway. Tell you what:”

And then, she 

 tell me what, which is that she is naming Pamela Winchell the Official Night Vale Director of Emergency Press Conferences.

When informed of this news, Pamela made a swiping, dismissive gesture with her hands, saying “I don’t need her permission. I’ll call them if I want. Anyway, I’m retired.”

She was crying. She smiled, and she cried.

“I’m retired,” she continued, “but that’s very, very nice of her. What a wonderful woman. I’m going to call an emergency press conference to let people know what a wonderful woman the new mayor is,” she concluded.

And now, a word from our sponsors:

Today’s sponsor is the concept of itching.

Listeners, are you looking for an action that will pass the time, but also is mildly irritating? Searching for a way to have your body express reaction to material it is allergic to? Want to express confusion in the most stereotypical manner possible? I am just thrilled to be here on behalf of itching.

Itching has been with humans as long as there has been humans. Longer than that, even! Why, beings have been having to scratch themselves almost as long as they’ve been being.

It can be 

 It mostly won’t be. But, if it’s your thing, or if it’s in a spot that’s easy to reach, then it can 

 be fun! I’m not saying it will 

 be fun, it probably won’t be.

The concept of itching. For a free sample, just think about it. Oh? There you go! See? Your experiencing it right now!

This has been a word from our sponsors.

Pamela Winchell called an emergency press conference to announce that, while she thanks the current mayor for her generous offer, after some thought and discussion with a couple of helpful advisers, she simply is too busy being retired to accept.

“I’m just too busy fishing,” she said, wildly waving a fishing rod around, slapping it on her podium, and narrowly avoiding catching several reporters with the absurdly oversized hook, as they ducked and scrambled out of reach. “See?” she continued. “I’m fishing right now! This is what fishing looks like, I’m pretty sure,” she continued, cracking the thick, leather fishing line like in that popular and heartwarming series of adventure movies about a wisecracking archaeologist who comically destroys countless important artifacts under the hilarious misapprehension that they belong in his museum rather than in the religious sites of the cultures that made them.

As the reporters ran from her dangerous, flailing fishing line, she shouted, “This concludes my emergency press conference about my complete retirement from emergency press conferences. Please assemble again in three hours for an emergency press conference that will update you on my retirement status.”

She then took hold of a rope, dangling from the hastily-painted blue backdrop that we all assume is the sky, and was lifted up through a door, shaking the flimsy particle board known as “the sky” as she went.

In other news, StrexCorp Synernists, Inc., a company which, until recently, had something of an outsized effect on our town, is now under the control of beings who call themselves angels…and who do not, legally, exist. The existence of the company itself is therefore something of a moral/ethical question, the kind that philosophers consider in their secret black market philosophy meetings.

Despite all the difficulties in discussing its very concept, Strex and its new owners have gone about making what they 

 are constructive repairs to a town damaged by its recent battle with a force that seemed – but was 

 – greater than our own.

For instance, they gave Teddy Williams, of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, the funds to hire contractors to renovate his building, and cover over Lane 5 with asphalt, thus trapping the tiny civilization beneath it that is still declaring war on us.

A so-called angel said in a statement, “I have donated a coffee table made of human bones to charity, and will use the money I save on taxes to invest in the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex because angels, if we were real, would certainly love to bowl. Or whatever,” the creature added.

Meanwhile, I’ve been getting regular calls and snapchats from Carlos – you know, my hero scientist boyfriend – from the desert otherworld he is 

 trapped in. He’ll be back super soon. He says that he found a cactus, only it’s not a cactus, only it is. He says it’s difficult to explain, and that he really 

 to explain it. That is what he is for, he said, to explain a world that defies explanation.

He sent me a photo 

 the cactus, but it only appeared on my phone as an error box that said, “Even if you could, you would wish you hadn’t.”

Well, it sounds like he’s having fun out there! That’s…that’s good.

Pamela Winchell called 

 emergency press conference to show just how well she’s doing without the need to call emergency press conferences.

“Retirement is 

” she said. “I’ve taken up bird watching.”

She then showed off this new hobby…in the process, demonstrating a deep misunderstanding of both the concept of birds, and the concept of watching. The resulting fire wiped out the podium and, indeed, the entire Press Conference Gazebo, sending both Pamela and the attending reporters fleeing in every direction.

“See how wonderful being retired is?” she shouted behind her as she sprinted away, smoke-fueled tears streaming from her sunken eyes. “I love being retired! 

” she concluded, as the fire spread to several nearby structures despite the earnest lectures and head-shaking from Night Vale’s brigade of brave Fire Disapprovers.

Ohhh! Listeners! I finally got a chance to eat at Tourniquet, Night Vale’s hottest new culinary night spot. I mean, I didn’t get to eat their food, or sit at any of their tables…reservations are still just too hard to get. But I 

 make a PB&J at home, and eat it quickly in their front waiting area, as the maître d’ glared at me implacably – as he does to everyone, due to the fact that he is a large idol carved from volcanic rock.

But, despite the less-than-ideal visit to the restaurant, it did give me a chance to say hello again to Earl Harland. Now, it was a big surprise for me. My childhood best friend, Earl Harland, working at this restaurant, after being dragged away by mute inter-dimensional children, not to be heard from again for a year and a half. It was a big surprise for me, obviously, because I had no idea he had any interest in cooking, let alone the skills to be a sous chef.

Well, I invited him to come on the show sometime, and give all of us a few cooking tips. I don’t know if he’ll take me up on it, but we might be lucky enough to get a peek into the mystical nearly-forgotten art that is cooking. Won’t that be dangerous! And probably illegal.

Despite pleas from local, regional, national, international, and interstellar authorities, Pamela Winchell has continued to give emergency press conferences to publicize her deep enjoyment of retirement. And to decline the new mayor’s standing job offer to give emergency press conferences.

Her press conference about tropical fish care resulted in a deadly flash flood that swept through old town Night Vale, washing away everyone’s piles of cool stones they had found.

Her demonstration of coin collecting crashed several world economies…in the process, breaking a ten year peace treaty that had ended the previous Blood Space War.

And her demonstration of mass poisoning, unfortunately, went without a hitch.

Even as her press conferences have become much more fatal than usual, she has increased their frequency considerably, sometimes having two press conferences so close together that they actually occur simultaneously, Pamela speaking in a rapid back and forth to two different groups of reporters, as she shows two different cataclysmic methods of retirement she has recently been taught by her mysterious team of advisers.

More on this story as Pamela continues to create it.

And now, some life hacks that will allow you to parse and reprogram the code of life – thus changing the very fabric of your being in a clumsy and likely horrifying fashion. Also, a handy way of organizing your entire existence through a complex system of binder clips and toilet paper rolls. Let’s get started!

Life hack one is…oh! Umm, listeners, Intern Maureen is waving to me frantically from the control room – well, more frantically than she does at all times about the general terrifying nature of life – and she’s mouthing something…flannel fisher? Animals whiz beer? Oh! Oh! No. She’s mouthing “Pamela is here!”

Listeners, it seems that Pamela Winchell, her Press Conference Gazebo burned down, has chosen the steps of the community radio station as the site of her next retirement demonstration. Given the affect of her previous demonstrations, this could spell doom for our little station and our little lives. I must…I must try to talk to her. I will, listeners, I will make her listen.

And while I make her listen, I will also make 

 listen to the weather.

Now, Pamela? Pamela! Stop!

[“

” by 

]

Well, we have returned, as we always do! All of us. Unless we don’t, as we sometimes don’t. All of us.

Many people who have had Night Vale Community Radio mean something in their lives rushed to the front steps of the building to save this vital part of our little town. The crowd held most of the population of our beloved burg. In this modern age of media there is, of course, no medium so close to the common heart as community radio.

Leading the crowd was Mayor Dana, who pressed Ms. Winchell further to accept her offer of the official position. But Pamela was unswayed. She, in fact, was standing rigidly, her eyes rolled to the whites, her fingers splayed, booming “RETIREMENT! RETIREMENT!” in a voice that was not her own.

A great wind gusted up from around her body, whirling through the crowd and sweeping Intern Maureen away into the distance.

To the family and friends of Intern Maureen, et cetera.

Anyway.

“Pamela!” we cried, unified under threat, just as we are often at odds through peace, “Pamela! Do not retire! We 

 you!” we cried. “Specifically, we need you to stop demonstrating your retirement! Stop doing that right away!” we said in unison and in fear.

But Pamela would not hear us. We had given up all hope, and were casting about for other things to give up:dreams, aspirations, and then, digging further, anticipated muscle pains – pre-grief for loss that hadn’t happened yet, post-grief for losses long ago – and further still, until we were ready to give up that shifting, shivery spark that is our human heart itself.

But then…

…

Well, I don’t remember what happened next. There seems to be just a gap in my memory, much longer and deeper than the usual gaps that we all develop in our memories to protect us from forbidden information we might have heard, or Hooded Figures we might have accidentally brushed against in the dark of our rooms just before we turn on the lights.

But fortunately, being a reporter, I had my Little Reporter’s Book of Big-Boy Note Taking, just like I’ve had since I was five years old, and the prophecies were first revealed that I was destined to be the voice of our little community. I always make notes in this book, even if I’m not aware of it. See? Just now I wrote down, “Said: always makes notes in this book, even if I’m not aware of it.”

Wow! Very accurate, and I’m not even holding a pen!

Anyway, I can just consult my notes and see how this situation was solved. Umm, OK. It appears here that a Man in a Tan Jacket holding a deerskin suitcase approached Pamela’s podium.

“Fear not!” he said, perhaps a tad melodramatically. “I can relate to what she’s going through,” he continued. “I think I can talk her through this.”

“You look very familiar,” we all shouted back, still in unison. “But I don’t believe we’ve ever met you before. Who are you?”

But the Man in the Tan Jacket was already skittering, spider-like, up to Pamela, and whispering into her ear. No one could hear what he said, according to my notes, but Pamela seemed to immediately respond to his voice, stopping the mass destruction of her retirement activities and listening intently, occasionally nodding and saying “Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Ah-hah!”

And then, miracle of miracles, she stepped away from the podium.

“Mayor Cardinal,” she said, “I would be happy to accept the role of Director of Emergency Press Conferences. Thank you, and I am no longer retired.”

She then asked everyone to meet her tomorrow at 7:00am sharp in the newly-rebuilt Press Conference Gazebo, for her first 

 emergency press conference in that role.

As for the mysterious man, he of the tan jacket and deerskin suitcase, he turned to the audience, and started a lecture about the place he is from, frequently naming it, and even pointing to it on a map. But any time the name of the place 

 appear in my notes, the writing has been violently scratched out to the point of tearing through the paper. And then, just blank pages, until a few minutes ago when my notes resume.

So…that’s what happened. Or, at least, according to my notes. It’s entirely possible that during that memory gap, I decided to use my notebook to try out a first foray into realistic fiction, and that something else entirely happened. Who knows which fictional version of the fictional past is true?

And so, listeners, now that we are safe, let us take a moment of deep sympathy for Pamela Winchell. One of the great fears among a life of great fears, perhaps the last great fear is the fear of being 

. We find a role in life, and we do that role to the best of our ability for as long as that ability is there. But all of us – even me, dear listeners – will someday hit a point where we no longer are able to do that thing that we define ourselves by doing. And more than the fear of injury, more than the fear of death, 

 is the fear that looms. The loss of self. The self that is self we imagined we were our whole lives. But we were 

 that self, not really. We were only a series of selves, living one role and then leaving it for another. And all the time convincing ourselves that there was no change. That we were always the same person, living the same life. One arc to a finish, not the stutter-stop improvisation that is our actual lives.

Worry less about the person you once were. Or the person you dream you someday will be. Worry about the person you are now. Or don’t even worry! Just 

 that person. Be the best version of that person you can be. Be a 

 version than any of the other versions in any of the many parallel universes. Check regularly online to see the rankings.

Pamela Winchell was mayor. And now, she is not. But that does not mean she is not 

. She is still Pamela. She is still a human being. And now, she is also the Director of Emergency Press Conferences. We look forward to the Pamela that is, and whatever Pamela will come after.

Stay tuned next for a world so possible that its very possibility feels constricting.

And of course, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 53 - The September Monologues


 The wind out of the desert is changing. I feel it. 

 feel it. A shiver in the midday heat. A crackle in the television broadcast. A shift in your immune system.

It is September, and something is different.

It is September, and the days have gone sinister – from first eye’s open to last slow breathing.

It is September, and so, listeners – 

 listeners – Night Vale Public Radio is proud to introduce The September Monologues. 

 Chad? Can you hear me? My mouth is half an inch from your left ear and I’m whispering. You will feel a heavy warmth there, like air from the swamp. That means I’m talking to you, Chad. I’m right behind you.

Listen, Chad…how long have we lived together? Your whole life, that’s the answer. Not that you’d know it, because I do it secretly. That’s my name: the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home. Though, also, I don’t have a face.

Chad, I am getting away from the point. You are the point.

Is this how you want to live your life? Shuffling from one trivial moment to the next, never letting anything add up to anything else?

Chad, it’s not my place to say, I know. My place is hiding behind the boring button-up shirts in your closet, my thin, gnarled fingers 

 brushing your hand each time you reach for one of those milquetoast frocks on your way to another unsuccessful night trying to find someone who will make you more than you are.

Chad, do you know how many flies live in your apartment? I do. I know all of their names, and I tell them where to lay their eggs. So listen, Chad, do not get on my wrong side. My fury is vast, and murky, and expressed through a papier-mâché gape-mouthed that I left behind your cereal boxes this morning. Not that you’ll find it. You never eat breakfast. A good breakfast is the start of a good day, say the tablets we found in that ancient crater last year.

But I’m not here to lecture you, Chad. I’m here to understand. Like, what’s with all the candles? Your room is strewn with clothes like your dresser got sick from overeating, but suddenly you’re buying nicely-scented candles, and arranging them carefully in the living room? That doesn’t seem like you, Chad.

And the fabric. That rich, red fabric that you bought and…are you 

 that fabric, Chad? That doesn’t seem like you either. Your other hobbies involve watching or consuming and now, here you are, 

 What does it mean?

I’ve uncovered many secrets, Chad. Do not think that you are going to be able to keep anything from me. I know what is behind the old VHS copy of Cliffhanger in your media center. I know about the way you talk to your horse figurines.

Yes, I know about the horse figurines.

And I know about the dreams, Chad. I put my faceless head very close to your face at night as you sleep. If you opened your eyes, I’m sure it would upset you.

So fragile, and yet so certain – your belief in the sanctity and privacy of home.

Oh, what about the amulet you hid in the bag of lettuce deep in your fridge? Why the amulet, that ancient cracked painting of a screaming goat set upon gold and ebony? I couldn’t lift it, Chad. I tried with my bony, skin-taut arms that have a surprising animal strength. Those arms that have been so close to you so many times, but that you’ve never seen. I tried to lift it, Chad, and I couldn’t. Why wasn’t I able to lift it?

This is me, as a part of your life, trying to understand that life. And you, drinking beer with your friends, drinking beer by yourself, drinking beer before work by yourself, smiling with your friends and smiling at your work and sitting dead-eyed and silent for hours inside your living room, wearing a polo shirt and khaki shorts, crying without making a sound or moving. A silence of tears down your slack, boyish face.

Chad, this is you, and I’m trying to understand.

I’ve stopped googling bees and I’ve started googling your name over and over. I can’t find a trace of you anywhere. What 

 you, Chad? I thought I understood. I do not understand.

And now, you are rising from your easy chair, still weeping. You are putting on a long red robe and lighting the candles arranged through the room in a pattern or a shape that I do not recognize. You are raising up the amulet and you are speaking…no, shouting, no…

.

This is not a language I understand! I understand every language. Your very speech is outside of my reality.

What I saw next, Chad, was beyond me. I have seen death in its many heaving forms. I have seen the low-flying ships that hide on the horizon in front of the setting sun, and I have seen the misshapen silhouettes of their pilots. I have seen the websites you visit.

But Chad…what I saw in that moment, what you summoned in your living room, what you brought to us here in this little town, 

 town, the town I secretly live in, the town in which I am, at least in my view, presumptive mayor…what have you done?

Chad, this is all to say that I am the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home, but…not 

 home, Chad. Not anymore. Because something else is living there now.

Oh, Chad. Something else is living there now.

 The air is different. Or…no. It is the way we are 

 that is different. The breathers, all of us, have changed. We’ve gone 

, you know, just…

. Words can’t capture it. But I have only words.

So, up next, more words. After that, words. Words, and words, and words. Words that form The September Monologues.

 Nobody’s made a good album in years! “Michelle,” you say, “Michelle Nguyen, that’s not true!”

Well, you’re right. Very little of what I have to say is true. Some of it is, though. Make of that what you will.

No, don’t. I don’t trust you to make anything good.

Hang on, there’s a customer.

Welcome to Dark Owl Records!

You! You! Why are 

 here? What do you want from me, you–

Never mind, they left.

We sold a pretty decent record the other day. It was a Beach Boys album. Everyone thinks the Beach Boys are the 

. And fine, fine, they contributed a lot to American music. You can hear their influence on people like Cole Porter, and Joni Mitchell, and Mozart, but I’m so sick of everybody thinking they know music just because they buy a Beach Boys album!

I begged the guy not to buy it. It was, of course, the one with most of their big hits on it, like “The People Under the Floor,” and “I’m Being Followed,” and “Tracking Device Inside My Skin,” and no doubt the Beach Boys’ most famous song, “Hand Me That Hammer, Madame Dentist.”

He bought the album anyway, but I broke it into pieces as I handed it to him, and then I told him the store was closed and he wasn’t allowed to leave. He’s still somewhere in the basement. A couple people came looking for him, but I covered my eyes with my hand and sat silently so they couldn’t see me.

Point being, there are still a few good albums in the world, but not many.

Oh! You know what I ordered for the store last week? It should arrive any day. If you’re a true lover of folk music, you’ll be just as excited as I am for this. I ordered 25 copies of Woody Guthrie. They’re scale replicas of his body in his most recognizable pose: holding a guitar in one hand and an aquarium full of mice in his other two hands. These replicas are 3:1 scale, so there’s no room with our low ceilings. I’ll have to keep them outside of the store in people’s lawns and next to highway overpasses and such. But they’re just great!

Oh, wait. Never mind. Folk music is over. It’s done, came and went. Stop listening to folk music! The Guthrie replicas are now 70% off. Please don’t buy them, though. Folk music is dead.

You want to know what music I’m listening to right now? Joy Division. Not “Unknown Pleasures.” Everyone’s listened to that album. That album will never be talked about by me again. No. I’m listening to a 

 Joy Division album. It’s a pretty recent album that was never actually released, because they never wrote it or recorded it or produced it. But I managed to get a copy of this album, and I listen to it almost daily. In private, so it’s not ruined by other people having heard it or talked to me about it. It’s a good album. I cry when I hear it. I cry when I think about it. I’m crying now.

I’m sure it doesn’t sound to you like I’m crying, because you can’t comprehend my crying. You can’t see me or hear me crying because you don’t know me. You don’t truly know me. This Joy Division album truly knows me in a way no other human ever has.

And so, that’s a complete list of music I like.

Looks like the coroner is here again.

Hello, Linda! We got the new Panic! at the Disco album in!

[whispers] I’ve been selling her blank CDs for years now and telling her that’s Panic! at the Disco’s aesthetic, that they just release completely silent songs with no titles on albums with no tracks or cover art and no name. It’s really funny, except for, their new album really did come out and it’s called “Quit Fabricating Our Musical Career, Michelle,” so I’m a little freaked out by that. But also, I think I’m really impacting the future of music. [end whispering]

We here at Dark Owl Records pride ourselves on that: impacting the future of music. Also, the past. We impact the past in music.

I’m wearing a hat right now! So, know that.

I hate Panic! at the Disco. I’ve never actually heard their music, so I don’t actually 

 them so much as 

 them. Or rather, resent what they stand for. Or rather, resent what 

 that they stand for. Or rather, resent my perception of other people’s projections of what they stand for. Or rather, myself.

I hate myself, is what I’m trying to say.

We have that in common, I think!

Panic! at the Disco is probably fine if you were to ever listen to their music. Lots of people buy lots of their music. Of course, lots of people buy lots of ridiculous things: overpriced coffee, minivans, dogs, furniture, towels, medicine…you name it, and some idiot will buy it.

Linda! Is that a Public Enemy cassette? Don’t touch that! You do not have hip hop access here!

We have a pretty good hip hop collection. Mmmm…that’s not true. It’s just that one cassette. And it’s broken.

Anyway, t-shirts and posters and trance music are all 50% off this weekend at Dark Owl, so come visit the store.

Wait…never mind. We’re closed until further notice.

You’re not allowed in here anyway. Not with 

 tattoo. Who has a Woody Guthrie tattoo these days?

 It will all be over soon. And then, something else will take its place.

“Like waves,” says the common metaphor.

“From dust to dust,” says a simplified version of a complicated philosophy.

“Mmmmmmmm, zmmmmmmm,” says the big bang, still echoing quietly through everything it created.

Let us return, one last time – before it, you, or anything else ends – to The September Monologues.

 There are glowing arrows in the sky. You can’t see them. I do.

There are dotted lines and arrows and circles. The sky is a chart that explains the 

. But you can’t see it. I know that.

The world makes sense. I– I believe that. I– I do. It 

 to. Otherwise…it wouldn’t make sense! And that would be the worst thing that could possibly happen.

No one listens when I talk. They hear, but…they don’t listen. Even now, maybe your attention is drifting. Why pay attention to 

 Why pay attention to Steve Carlsberg? 

 But I 

 them! I see the arrows in the sky. I understand what is happening.

Night Vale is a weird place. No one else sees that, I guess. But I do. It’s not like other places. I’ve never 

 other places, but I know. I know what other places are like. I’ve read books. Don’t tell anyone, please. Don’t tell anyone that I’ve read books. I have to maintain my position and the respect of my peers. I’m a member in 

 of the PTA. I bring scones and they are 

 the first item in the pot luck to go. I take great pride in that.

My…uh, brother-in-law, step-brother, brother-outside-of-the-law…I can never get those terms straight. Well, he just brings store-made hummus and wheat-free pita chips. Every time! I make my scones with my own hands, from scratch. Sometimes, I put in the zest of orange, sometimes I don’t. They are not always the same.

Nothing is.

People pick at the chips and hummus. They want to be polite. Often, they are not. We all, 

, so often fail at what we want to do. That’s OK, as long as we understand our failure. As long as we see it. I see my failure to help my community the way I would like to help it. I would like to guide it somewhere new, but the only person who listened to me was that man on the Desert Bluffs radio. And then…well, then all the rest happened.

The world would be better if more people saw the dotted lines and arrows in the sky. I can look out my window and see them! I’m doing that now.

Listen, I love my wife, and she loves her brother. And we both love our daughter, and my…brother-in-law? Half-brother? Double-brother? Hmm…Well, he loves his niece. So that counts for a lot. That counts for most of it. I don’t hate him the way he hates me. How could I? I understand him. He hates me because he doesn’t understand me at all. Cannot see the dotted lines. He cannot see the arrows.

I first met him at the wedding. He’s busy, or he 

 he is. He does always seem to be at the station. Or at least, he used to be. This last year’s been good for him, I think. It has softened him a little, in the right places. Although not at all toward me. But I never expect that.

He was very nice when I first met him. 

 he said grandly. Which was odd, since he actually arrived after me. But it was a nice gesture anyway, and I accepted it with a handshake and a “Hello! It’s an exciting day, isn’t it?” I said. “Here, try a scone!” I had made scones. It seemed right, in the midst of a formal celebration like that, to have a little touch of home, to remind people of the lifetime of simple gestures that this grand celebration was meant to launch.

“

 he said. 

He hasn’t said anything like that in some time.

We chatted for a while. I don’t remember what about. Maybe the weather.

No, definitely the weather. I remember it was the weather, because we had to stand in awkward silence for a bit as we waited for the music to stop playing.

But then, it all turned. “How ‘bout those secret agents?” I asked, indicating the black-suited women and men lining the back of the room, taking photos and writing down everything that everyone said.

“

 he said. 

 he said.

He was raised in the Night Vale tradition of silence. And with a belief in the power of hierarchy and bureaucracy. I had been raised that way too, but it didn’t stick. Because I could see the arrows, and the dotted lines, and the 

 laid out across the world. I could clearly see how things were! The way that it was all organized, and for whose benefit.

“Well, sure,” I said. “Those agents from… Oh. Well, um, this next part is complicated. People always just refer to them from being from a Vague, Yet Menacing Agency and…while they are certainly menacing, there’s nothing vague about them.”

I explained to Cecil then exactly what branch they’re from, who specifically they report to, and whose desk those reports ultimately land on. People could die for knowing these things. But I’ve always known it. I could always just see it, how it all really was laid out.

And as I talked, Cecil’s face changed. It twisted into a grimace.

“

 he howled. And I’m sorry for using such a melodramatic verb, but he really did. He howled! And then he refused to speak to me again.

During the ceremony, he tried to object on the grounds that I knew and spoke aloud forbidden knowledge and dangerous truths. Which is actually a mandatory reason to cancel a wedding according to the laws of Night Vale, but his sister talked him down.

Since then, though, he’s never trusted me. It’s because of Janice. It’s because I want Janice to understand the world the way I do. I want her to 

 the arrows and dotted lines, to 

 the world, not just repeat what has been told to her.

My brother-in-law, as you might imaging, disagrees. 

 he explains to me regularly, and loudly. 

I don’t know. Maybe he’s right. It’s not like knowing has made my life easier. Quite the opposite.

Quite the opposite.

But every time I look up, I see them. Glowing arrows in the sky, dotted lines and circles, a great chart that explains it all, and I ask you, how can I know all of this? How can I understand, and not try to explain? How can I see the dotted lines 

, and deny them?

I have to try, even if it means that everyone – even my wife, or even Janice – grows to hate me. The truth is more important than all that. It 

 to be.

Or else, why would it shine so clear above?

 Well, that’s it for The September Monologues. We’ve said so much. What more is there to say?

Episode 54 - A Carnival Comes to Town


 The secret to a long life lies in how acutely you perceive time.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

A quiet caravan of flatbed trucks rolled into town last night. The trailers were unmarked, except by age and neglect. The trucks parked along Bandera Street, in an abandoned lot in the heart of the up-and-coming Abandoned Lot neighborhood. People we do not know emerged from the trucks and began to unload tall lights and heavy speakers.

Perhaps may of you were jostled from slumber by the faint pulsing of music that sounded like music you know, even though it was music you had never heard.

Perhaps you woke unaware there ever was a sun, confused by your own consciousness, hearing the echoes of these unknown choruses, and found yourself singing along, mouthing familiar words placed in an unfamiliar order.

We do not know what these trucks have brought, or what those within them intend. All I can say is, you should 

 got near that abandoned lot on Bandera Street until we find out more – which might take a while. It’s a very busy day. We can’t investigate every horrifying fleet of unmarked trucks. We’ve got more important things, like this voicemail from my boyfriend!

 Hey, Cecil! I made 

 progress today! Doug, and some of the other members of the army of warriors who roam this Otherworld desert, took me to the top of the mountain, to the lighthouse up on it.

Oh, right…I’m still stuck in the desert Otherworld. How are you? I miss you!

Anyway, they showed me the photos on the walls inside the lighthouse. One of the warriors, whose name is Alicia, and who is not a woman or a man, and who is Doug’s partner, and who has a dog, and who is trying to make a new currency based on sand, walked me through the pictures. There were photos of living rooms, and parks, and lawns…photos of Night Vale.

I asked if Alicia took these photos, because they were 

 photos! Colorful, well composed, alive! Alicia shook their head no, and the other warriors in the room pointed quietly back to the photos, and I saw that they were 

 alive. The people and all of the things that were not people moved in the photos! Blades of grass in the breeze, small bees spiraling, a man refusing to smile – and all within the confines of rough driftwood frames.

Inside the lighthouse, you can see anywhere – although you cannot 

 to any of those…“wheres.”

And, as I leave this message, I can 

 you, Cecil! Yeah, I’m watching you shave!

Oh, it’s cute how you pull up your nose like that. Oh! But you missed a spot.

I’m sorry I haven’t had time to go looking for the doorway back to your dimension. I’m learning 

, though! I– I promise. I promise to return soon. This…desert Otherworld is just 

 scientifically interesting! Maybe it’s the most scientifically interesting community I’ve ever seen!

[sigh]

I love you! I’ll try calling you again tonight. Is it even night time there? Ugh, I’ve lost all sense of time.

[sigh]

 So…I don’t know. All of that, and such.

And now, the news.

The foundation is finally being laid for the new Old Night Vale Opera House. Old Woman Josie was on hand for the ceremony. In fact, she brought her own cement mixer and poured it herself. Several creatures claiming to be angels, wearing yellow and orange triangles – the logo of StrexCorp, now of course owned by these same creatures – were on hand to assist. But Josie kept slapping their many hands away when they attempted to help her with the heavy mixer and strenuous work.

“I’m fine, Erika! I have this! Go get me some water,” Josie said, wiping her shriveled brow with a green handkerchief. “I ain’t that old!” she said before adding, “Hey! You forgot to record Castle last night! Make yourself useful and double-check the TiVo before I get home.”

One of the supposed angels – all of whom are named Erika – pointed out that Castle is in reruns, and she could probably download the episode she missed from iTunes. There was a long pause as Old Woman Josie stared at Erika in silence, concrete churning its dull pulsing hum, onlookers forgetting to exhale, a single drop of sweat rolling down one of Erika’s seven cheekbones.

And then Josie said, “OK, whatever. Is the Chopped marathon on tonight?” and continued her pour.

The angel-like beings claim that StrexCorp is Night Vale’s first angel-owned and angel-operated company. They claimed this proudly, and even placed it on their brochures and signs – despite the great risk of arrest and imprisonment for the felony of acknowledging the existence of angels.

Completion of the new Old Night Vale Opera House is scheduled for this coming Spring. Many town residents are excited and 

 over the return of this cultural landmark, as none of us know what an opera 

.

“Is it a type of deli?” asked one bystander, who shielded his eyes and asked not to be identified before dissipating into a black cloud and joining the rest of the cowardly air molecules.

“I heard opera is a virus you get from kissing,” said another bystander, who was 

 former mayor Pamela Winchell wearing a fake mustache and clumsily altering her voice.

Nobody but Old Woman Josie and her mysterious friends know what an opera is. Hopefully we’ll all find out soon, Night Vale! Hopefully it’s a good thing. I have my doubts, though. I am sometimes more doubt than man.

The strangers at the abandoned lot have begun unloading the fleet of trucks, removing large metal cases from the trailers and assembling gargantuan machines covered in rust and the faint echo of bright color.

Residents of the Abandoned Lot District, who usually just talk hopefully about a day when they’ll be allowed to finally build homes, have reported hearing organ music and smelling deep fryers. They saw carnival workers carrying bags of strange candy and leading packs of unfamiliar loping animals into the lot. Many of the strangers wear large wigs and bright painted faces. They carry foolish hats and mangled balloons.

Listeners, I know what this is, and it is 

 good. A carnival has come to our city, Night Vale. I do not even know how you can protect yourself from this wicked cultural affront to our community.

I reached out to the City Council but I just got their voicemail, which was the Council saying, in unison, “We’re not here anymore. Good luck with whatever that is in the abandoned lot! If you’d like to scream or cry in horror, please do so at the tone.” So at least their voicemail is the usual one, but I don’t think we’ll get much help from them.

Night Vale, I have only ever 

 of carnivals. I never thought I would ever have to actually 

 one. No one knows what they will do in the face of catastrophe until they are in that face, and here I am, 

 not knowing what to do.

A carnival. Oooooh, all the mysterious lights in the sky. I do not know how this carnival found us, nor what they intend, but I am certain it is not good.

It is rumored that our neighbors in Pine Cliff once welcomed a traveling carnival. Pine Cliff is now inhabited only by ghosts. But I don’t actually know if that was related to the carnival at all. They might have been that way already.

And you know, there 

 a certain sweetness to the hastily-assembled rides, to the thought of eating air-blown pastel sugar, your boyfriend winning you a stuffed animal at the bird-mocking booth, exchanging known quantities of fiat cash for meta-fiat paper coupons. Oh, it sounds just…it sounds just…

!

No! These wicked magicians of the midway! They must be using mind control to draw us in. Do not fall victim to…holding hands hotly under the cool lights, the undulating swirl and discordant fugue of the merry-go-round about us. Carlos! Oh, Carlos! Let’s go to the carnival – No! Stop it, Cecil! No!

Night Vale, 

 Hide in your homes.

This Thursday, at the Night Vale Public Library, is the twice-annual 

. The Sheriff’s Secret Police Super Secret Special Forces Unit will be on hand to subdue the librarians, who regularly attempt to not only undermine our city with dangerous books, but also sink their sharp claws and pincers into library visitors before flying them off to eat or toy with or…whatever it is they do to their victims.

The Cleaning of the Books is our way of double-checking that the librarians are keeping a clean stock of municipally-approved books, such as The Biography of Helen Hunt and all four of 

.

Librarians are well-known for sneaking in books by 

 authors. In 1988, two – 

 copies of 

 were found in Night Vale. No one knows quite how many people read these copies, but the ensuing riots inconvenienced hundreds and led to the current cleaning schedule.

Not everyone is in favor of this practice, though. New mayor Dana Cardinal issued a public rebuke of book cleaning. The mayor admitted that, while “books are pretty dangerous,” and she “doesn’t recommend them for everyone,” we should “concentrate more on protecting ourselves from the librarians themselves, who are the real danger.”

Teenage book lover and heroic militia leader Tamika Flynn also offered her protest of this important event, saying, “books and libraries are dangerous. Which is exactly why we should protect them. Librarians are conniving and vicious monsters, but they also know how to recommend a good read. Their methods may be violent, but we must be willing to face great challenges in order to achieve great things.”

Tamika continued, “We will grow soft without books, Night Vale,” as she waved her favorite copy of Helen DeWitt’s 

, onlookers shielding their eyes from the forbidden tome.

I don’t want to disagree too much with young Tamika, I – I respect her leadership and her vast knowledge of books, but…not everyone is cut out for reading difficult literature. Perhaps…perhaps we could split the difference. We could select just a few people in town who are allowed to read challenging books. That way the masses don’t have to be exposed to complex ideas, and a small committee of trustworthy people, like Tamika, can tell us in a gentle way what those books say. Very quietly, so we don’t have to hear them. It’ll be all the fun and simplicity of an intellectual oligarchy, but without all the awful reading.

Intern Maureen has returned to our studio. She was swept away a few weeks back by an enormous gust of wind, and we thought her lost. We held services for her at the Rec Center. Her whole family was there. Many of her friends from the Night Vale Community College came, or at least, I assume they were friends from school. They all had human bodies with coyote heads, and they were eating armadillos out of a duffel bag. Huh. College kids.

Well, we were all glad to see Maureen come home safe. Or, most of us. Her family seemed…disappointed, this being the second time they’ve mourned her death in vain. They seemed emotionally exhausted. Not angry. They told her “This is the last time, Maureen. This is it! No more!”

Anyway, today at work, Maureen’s been doing some research into carnivals. And according to her, carnivals need money to operate. If we do not want a carnival in town, then we should just not give them our money, and the carnival will go away. Maureen has also handed me a report saying…oh, my! Night Vale! The carnival grounds have been completed. A 40-foot tall wheel with empty compartments spins lazily in the hot sun, as broken speakers sing cacophonous platitudes over simplistic chord progressions.

Carnival workers are brandishing hammers next to a tower inscribed with ascending numbers and topped with an alarm bell.

Night Vale residents have gathered near the grounds, but are not yet entering. A group of the carnival workers with white faces and bulbous noses and large shoes have opened the gates to the carnival grounds, and are cooing and beckoning our citizens to enter. These masked interlopers wish to sway you with broad toothy smiles, but they are nightmares, Night Vale. They are lies incarnate.

Remember that we are a great town. We are a great town that does not back down to grave danger. Are we not the same town that defeated a Smiling God, and a fascist corporatocracy, and once – 

 – survived a Street Cleaning Day?

I said earlier that I did not know what to do in the face of a catastrophe, but I was 

, Night Vale. I was wrong. When I think only of myself, I am scared. But knowing I am with you, I am 

 scared. We are in this together. I have a community I can trust and love. There is no need to be frightened of treacherous outsiders.

Outsiders? Wait. How did these outsiders get in? Night Vale is not so easily found, so…how have they so easily found it?

Oh! Ohh! The carnival gates have opened! All of Night Vale is there. Only I sit contained in my booth, helpless as usual.

The carnival workers smile wider, and wider, and wider, and wider. Breath is heard, loud and wet and without an obvious source. The birds are gone. There is a fearful infinity of an instant.

I take you now, uncertain of what this next instant will bring, and none of you near a radio anyway, to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

The carnival has left. Night Vale citizens resisted entering the metal gates. They formed a semicircle around the opening and shouted, “

” while pointing. As is our friendly, 

 way of welcoming strangers.

Soon the painted people backed away, closing themselves into their miserable flatbed corral. They disassembled their mechanical monstrosities and drove them away. Night Vale, en masse, waved fists and sticks and farm tools and cactuses and animal parts. Our citizens chanted curses upon the carnival.

The carnival employees, in their haste, left behind several artifacts of their attempted threat to our sanctity – our sanity. We found clear plastic bags filled with cheaply-produced dolls. There was a large styrofoam-stuffed green and orange squirrel. As the trucks drove away, proud and vigilant Night Vale citizens set the squirrel ablaze, that unholy totem of that unholy carnival.

The sun long gone, presumably scared away by the unexpected visitors, the happy fire of victory shone out to meet the tail lights of the retreating trucks.

Witnesses heard the carnival perpetrators saying things like, “Run!” and “Get out of here!” as they made their way to their trucks. Shouts of “What the hell 

 this town?” and “Where the hell 

 we?” and “This is definitely 

 Modesto!” and “I think they’re gonna kill us, Stacy! Run!” were the verbal white flags, signaling our triumph as a town – as a proud community that stood for itself once again.

And Intern Maureen, who is…hey! Maureen? You look upset. Are you upset? Is everything OK?

Uhh, Maureen does not look happy, listeners. I’m not sure why Maureen is not happy about today’s victory she helped bring about. You are part of this, Maureen! This victory is also 

!

Maureen? Do you not love victory over outsiders who mean us harm? Maureen, do you–

Well! Maureen left the control booth. She just got up in a huff and left. Huh. Teenagers. I guess.

Stay tuned next for people arguing about sports. Not on the radio, somewhere else. Somewhere and soon people will be arguing about sports. I don’t 

 what’s happening next on the radio. I never do.

And as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 55 - The University of What It Is




Episode 56 - Homecoming


 It is autumn, and nature is vanishing. It is autumn, and nature is beautiful.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

It’s that time of year again, listeners! This Friday night is Night Vale High School’s homecoming game. I’m not much of a sports fan, but this is the one game I truly care about. All of the Night Vale High alumni come together for it. Everyone! Current students, former students, students long dead, future students who aren’t born yet. It’s the one night we can see our loved ones who have been lost to time and mortality. The dead alumni come out at halftime, and we all get to visit with them while the marching bands go spear hunting for dinner.

Aww, I can’t wait to see my late mother again this Friday night. Especially after I found those old cassette tapes last fall. I have so many questions! 

 questions! And with Carlos out of town, I’ve gotten kind of isolated. A little…hermit-like lately. I need to get out. This year’s homecoming means more to me than ever.

Plus, we’re playing the Red Mesa High School Ant Carpenters, who were 

 last year, so…should be a fun night, and a big win for our team.

Team? Team. It’s a football 

, right? A baseball 

, a soccer 

, a hockey 

, a football 

. Yes, that’s it. Team.

And now, a public service announcement from the Night Vale Seismological Society, who have released their schedule of upcoming municipally-planned earthquakes.

On Sunday, from 8:00am to 8:30am, there will be a small series of minor tremors. “It’s likely you will feel nothing,” the seismologists say, as these quakes are just to test some new equipment.

At 3:00pm on Tuesday, there will be an 

 earthquake, rating upwards of 7 to 8 on the Richter scale, so, wear long sleeves, or goggles, or gloves…whatever it is you do to be safe during an earthquake. “We’re not entirely sure,” the Night Vale Seismological Society said.

The following Saturday, be ready for 

. They’re not sure what’s going to happen. Maybe nothing! Probably nothing. 

…hopefully, something really, 

 cool. They don’t want to get your hopes up, so just be on the lookout, but…no promises.

“Oh, man! Fingers crossed! This could be super amazing!” the Night Vale Seismological Society said.

This just in: There’s news breaking of a possible scandal involving one of the Night Vale football players. Senior running back Maliq Herrera, according to an investigative report by Leann Hart of the Night Vale Daily Journal, Herrera doesn’t actually exist. Like, he’s right there when you look at him, and he plays in a team of other players, so it would make more sense for him to be there than not. But, Hart claims in her report that the all-district running back is, in fact, completely fabricated.

Anonymous sources say that Herrera is collectively imagined by the Night Vale High School fan base – a shared dream, in the form of a boy who won the district rushing title the past two years, and was Freshman of the Year three seasons ago.

Red Mesa is threatening to cancel this Friday’s game if Night Vale does not bench Herrera, citing District League Rule 12, Article 6, that states: “All players must be real people. Don’t 

 be a person, OK?” The rule continues, “Because if you’re not really real, 

, I’m mad just thinking about it!”

Night Vale High School head coach Nazr al-Mujaheed said they will not bench any player until a full investigation is performed, which can’t happen until Tuesday – maybe Monday at the earliest.

Coach al-Mujaheed then concluded the statement by removing his goat-horned headpiece and comically large sunglasses, revealing tattoos of cat eyes on his eyelids.

“Coooool,” the gathered reporters shouted.

Night Vale? If there’s no game, there’s no homecoming. If there’s no homecoming, we will miss the one chance we have this year to see our lost loved ones! I will miss the chance to talk to my mother! To see many of my friends! To…

, for once, and…not feel so lonely. We will not have our biggest night of the year to come together as a community. I hope this scandal is not true. And, if it is, that it doesn’t…you know, 

 anything.

Well, there 

 at least one old friend I’ll get to see. Listeners, I’m so excited for this next segment! My old friend Earl Harlan is in the studio today. Earl is the new sous chef at Night Vale’s hottest new restaurant, Tourniquet. And he’s here to teach us a simple and delicious dessert recipe.

Welcome, Earl.

 It’s good to see you again, Cecil. It’s been a long time.

 Many of you listening may not know this, but Earl and I grew up together. We fell out of touch for a while, and then he was taken to another world during a Boy Scout ceremony. But I recently saw his name in the news releases about Tourniquet.

 We were very close friends.

 We were, Earl. What happened after high school? I completely lost track of you.

 Well, I turned 19, and then [chuckles] I was 19 for a long time. I don’t even know how long. I was 19 for longer than I care to admit, and then one day, I was suddenly a grownup. I had a kid, and a house, and a job.

 Some of us mature early, some of us mature late. It sounds like you had plenty of youth left to live after high school, and you just…came to adulthood later.

 Cecil, I meant that literally. I was 

 19 for…oh, I think it was decades. Maybe a century, or more? I don’t know exactly how long.

Cecil, we graduated the same year, right?

 Yeah, of course we did! I remember our graduation party. We drank an entire case of warm orange milk, and told dirty jokes about the moon, until we were frightened off by the sunrise.

 What year was that? Cecil? What year did we graduate?

[Prolonged silence]

You don’t remember, do you, Cecil?

 So, tell us about your recipe, Earl!

 OK, sure thing. [Clears throat] Tiramisu is a popular dessert at many restaurants – especially at Tourniquet – but few people make it at home. Once they hear how easy it is, and how delicious Chef Mason’s recipe is, they’ll want to make it all the time. They’ll want to 

.

 Oooh, sounds good!

 

 stop making it!

 Oh-ho.

 They’ll lose their minds making it, Cecil!

 So…what all do you have here? What will our listeners need?

 Well, everyone should have most of these ingredients already at home. A carafe of pre-made coffee, six eggs – go ahead and separate them into whites and yolks, but make sure to remove organs, teeth, and other debris – uh, salt, two tablespoons of cocoa, 1/3 cup of sugar, two cups of marscapone, which is a kind of fish, a package of gluten-free ladyfinger cookies, two ounces of dark rum, and – Chef Mason’s special culinary touch – one and a half cups of ground nutmeg.

 Ohhh! I do love nutmeg. Oh…it’s been deveined, right?

 Yes. You can buy deveined nutmeg at most supermarkets, but in case you’re grinding it fresh at home, make sure to remove the thick vein running up the nutmeg spine after you kill and clean the animal.

To start, just whisk the egg yolks and ¼ cup of the sugar in one bowl, and then work in the marscapone. Then, in a separate bowl, you’ll want to mix the egg whites, a pinch of salt, and the remaining sugar until firm, like this.

[Sounds of a gas-powered mixer on a farm]

 That looks easy!

 It is! Mix that into the first bowl, and add the coffee and the rum. Then, dip the cookies into the mixture, lay them into a baking dish, cover with your ground nutmeg, and…

 Oh, dear, Earl? I feel so silly saying this, but…there’s no oven here.

Ugh. I brought a professional chef to do a recipe on my show, and I don’t even have a working kitchen!

 [Laughs] Relax, Cecil. We wouldn’t have time to completely cook a tiramisu on the air! It takes hours of slow baking in an earth oven. I already brought a 

 tiramisu!

 Earl! How sweet of you! Oh, this looks delicious! I can’t wait to share it with the staff.

 Be careful, it 

 quite poisonous.

 Oh, yes, of course.

Well, thanks for coming on the show, and congratulations on the huge success of Tourniquet. I hope to get a reservation there soon…will you come on the show again with more tasty recipes? Maybe we can make this a regular cooking feature.

 I’d love to, Cecil. I think we really have something here.

 Me too!

And now, a word from our sponsors.

Today’s program is brought to you by Staples. Staples has the largest collection of office supplies 

. From printer toner to paperclips, Staples has everything you could possibly ever want to run your business.

Just imagine it! Imagine your office. A great mahogany desk, with ornate leg carvings depicting old gods, a crisp new suit, and high-backed chair made of rare animal hide. Imagine a workforce that has all it needs to succeed. Imagine an open floor plan, allowing you the freedom to see the stars, which geometrically describe the shapes of Old Gods.

You wail to the stars. You howl your strategic plan to the stars. The Old Gods like your presentation.

You smell prey. Follow the blood scent. Imagine the distant cries of your colleagues baying beneath moonlit pines, their teeth glistening with hunger.

Imagine teamwork. Imagine a business running at its most efficient. Imagine a lone deer, trapped against a wild stream. A wounded leg. Nowhere to run. Surrounded, it will fight…but your business will fight harder. You have everything you need. Plus, there’s that refreshing stream for a cold drink when you are through with this gory work.

Staples. Worship Old Gods.

Terrible news, listeners! Just…terrible news. Red Mesa High School has called off Friday Night’s game. There will be no homecoming. The campers and RVs that had started to fill up the Night Vale Stadium parking lot have begun to file out.

Maliq Herrera, the running back accused of a false existence, apologized for not being more transparent, and for letting down his school and community. The Night Vale School Board forced the team’s hand by suspending Herrera for his corporeal unreality, but…it was too late. The game had already been forfeited.

Our homecoming is no more.

I had…I had so much I wanted to say to my mother! I imagine all of you had so much you wanted to say to your lost loved ones, to…to say to each other. I imagine all that could’ve been, and all that is now lost. Our biggest community event of the year is gone, perhaps because we imagined too much.

And, to make things worse, a, um [clears throat]…a dangerous storm front is moving right now into Night Vale. You should seek shelter immediately from the imminent rain, and as a duty of public safety, I must take you now to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

It’s been five days, Night Vale, since that weather report began. It was a historically massive storm, and we needed the ongoing weather coverage. I hope you are all OK.

I’m looking at some of you right now, and you seem just fine, so…that’s good news. Sadly, the homecoming game remained canceled. League officials conducted an investigation into Maliq Herrera’s reality and determined he was indeed 

. They said he was tangible, they could feel a body when they touched him, they could hear a voice when they spoke with him. They could see a boy when they looked at him. But Red Mesa coaching staff presented, as evidence, a photograph of the many galaxies of our universe. And, after viewing this, league officials determined that Herrera was 

 to be considered real.

Coach al-Mujaheed argued that it is unfair to discriminate against someone based on their reality. Just because someone does not exist, does not mean they do not deserve equal rights, equal pursuit of happiness.

Even if al-Mujaheed and Herrera’s appeal holds up in the league, it can’t bring back the homecoming we did not get to have. We did not get to see our dead friends and relatives this year, Night Vale. We had unanswered questions. We had unfulfilled hugs. We had unacknowledged “I miss yous.” We did not get to cry that night the way we wanted to cry that night, Night Vale. The way that, perhaps, we want to cry every night.

And even if there 

 been a game, the rain from the weekend was so monstrous and so intense that it would have been postponed anyway. There would have been no halftime in that deluge.

But, in spite of all this, coach al-Mujaheed called a pep rally last Friday, in a gesture of support for Maliq Herrera. This – as any time – is when we should join as a town. 

 the game that never was. Students and alumni, unfortunately only those still living, met that night in a rainy parking lot in the well-lit shadow of an empty football stadium.

And we told stories.

Inez Cordova told me about her son, who has started to walk!

Teddy Williams told me he finally rolled a 450 in bowling!

Wilson Levy and Amber Aquini whispered the story of their vacation to Luftnarp last spring!

I told my friend Diane Creighton about Carlos, and how much I miss him, but how 

 I am of the great work he is doing. And Diane introduced me to her son, Josh, who is a monarch butterfly. And later, when I saw him, he was a motorbike. Aww, he’s a sweet kid, that Josh.

Everyone was sad, and everything was perfect.

We stayed late into the night under the fluorescent corona of the bleachers, eating damp barbecue, wearing our orange ponchos and telling those tales we wanted to tell to those loved ones who have left us. Telling them instead to those who we currently, or may eventually, love.

Tears were hardly noticeable on our rain-streaked cheeks by the time we said our goodbyes.

“Goodbye!” we all said.

“You too!” we all replied.

“Oh! Let’s stay in touch!” we all added, with wildly varying levels of intention.

Before getting into my car, I saw Maliq Herrera standing alone, wearing a full football uniform…shoulder pads, knee spikes, and all. I told him he’ll be playing again soon, and we’re all on his side. Even though he’s just a figment of our collective unconscious.

He said, “I don’t even 

 football, sir.” He said he likes painting and bound poetry.

I told him he could be an artist, if he wanted.

“Only if the town 

 that for me,” he said.

“Ahh. Well, you’re a real trooper,” I told him.

“Hmm. Just a trooper,” he said. “I’m not real. I gotta get to practice now, Mr. Palmer.” Then he put on his helmet and jogged away.

“But…it’s 2:00am!” I called out. But he had already vanished into the unrelenting storm.

“It sure is, sir!” he called back faintly in my mind.

I fell asleep easily that night. I dreamed of sun, of being with Carlos again, of a lighthouse that was not a lighthouse. Of a world that is not anything at all. Perhaps a dream of things yet to come.

Huh.

Stay tuned next for a radio program that only dogs can hear.

And as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 57 - The List


Breathe deep.

Deeper than that. Get far below sea level and breathe. Breathe in a cave. Breathe in a 

 cave. Breathe deeper and deeper until you can’t find your way back.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Some of you might remember, but most of you won’t, that you were given 

. Nearly two years ago, you were given a list, and told to memorize it exactly. Keep it safe, so that someday, it would keep 

 safe.

Well, listeners? The Sheriff’s Secret Police would like me to inform you that the “someday” you’ve been waiting for is 

 day. This is the day in which you will need that list we gave you. Do you still have it? Do you remember it? Exactly. Are you safe? 

 Well, we will all find out soon enough. Good luck.

Harrison Kip, adjunct professor of archaeology at Night Vale Community College, announced today that he has found something out in the desert.

“Whoa!” he explained to no one, a dot in a vast landscape of sand and wind. “Oh, man!” he continued, looking at the thing he found.

He has declined, so far, to describe what he has found, or offer any details or, for that matter, do anything but stare at whatever this thing he found was, and continued to say things like, “Wow!” and “They’re 

 going to believe this!”

We reached out to Sarah Sultan, president of the Community College, for additional information, but she would not provide any, saying only that Harrison is on a private dig, funded by a small group of anonymous sponsors. She said, “Although I have never met them in person, I have spoken to the sponsors by telephone, and they have our best interests at heart.”

“I am sure of it,” she added. “Plus, they totally funded this dig thing, so, what am I going to do, just start asking questions?”

A lone helicopter on a precautionary sweep of that expanse of the empty desert reported that Harrison is still kneeling over whatever it is he has found; explaining to himself, in an unrecognizable language, the incredible nature of whatever that thing is.

More on this, eventually. I guess. Whatever.

The Greater Night Vale Medical Community, in conjunction with the mayor’s office, announced the new city-wide campaign for Meatless Mondays. Each week, in recognition of the immense impact of meat on the environment and public health, Meatless Mondays will be the days we all set aside to try not to be made of meat. We will all sit quietly, and attempt to will ourselves into a state of inorganic bliss, seeking to turn our feeble bodies into metal, or silicon, or stone.

When we fail to do this, as is likely (according to the most recently issued laws of physics), we will all engage in a group denouncing circle to try to understand whose betrayal is causing the continued failure of this important day.

And now, a look at traffic.

Obviously, you know that when you die, the matter that is 

 matter will just become matter, no article attached. That matter will belong to any number of things. That matter is not you. That matter was 

 you.

But there is more to you than matter. When you die, you will not disappear until everyone who remembers you, and whose actions are affected – however slightly – by your memory, until all of those people die, and you are completely forgotten.

But even then, you are not gone. Not until all the people who remember and are affected by 

 people who remembered, and were affected by you, are gone.

But even 

, you are not gone. Not until all the people who remember and are affected by those people who remembered, and were affected by those people who…and so on, and so on, and on.

You will persist, ever so faintly, ever so slightly, on into perpetuity. Long after everything about you no longer matters. Your life is so small. But, in the setting sun of this universe, its shadow is cast down through generation after generation, until it gets blurry and hard to see…but still there. A breath of a wisp of a thread stretching out before you.

There’s a fender bender on Route 800, near Exit 84B. Expect delays.

This has been traffic.

Update: We still aren’t sure exactly when or how you will need that list today. You remember the list, right? You were given a list some time ago. You 

 have memorized it. If you didn’t…

I mean, if you 

……wellllllllllll, I mean…..if you 

No one can make your destiny for you. Only you can make your destiny. Only you and the privileges you were born with, and a whole lot of aimless, meaningless, luck, can make your destiny.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police are going around town, checking in with everyone and seeing if they have the list memorized. If you don’t, they 

 are shaking their heads and 

ing, and then saying, “Wow, you’re in trouble!” before leaving you to fend for yourself against whatever dangers this list would have protected you from.

More on this soon, as you desperately try to remember the list that was told to you. Or even 

 it was told to you, and in what context. It’s a very important list.

And now, a word from our sponsors.

An empty food bowl.

An untouched water bowl.

A silence in the house.

A cage containing nothing.

A feeling of unease that was once soothed by a joyous instinctual companionship.

We listen out our window, and hear not a passing jangle. Not a “No,” or a “Wait for me!” Nothing meows. Nothing does. Absolutely nothing meows.

The night is so quiet that our thoughts are a clatter, keeping us awake.

In the distance, a dog doesn’t bark.

PetCo. Where did the pets go?

Old Woman Josie told me over a round of bowling down at the Desert Flower that construction on the New Old Opera House is continuing along well. They have already completed the initial arches, the outer flood banks, and the primary stables.

“Yup,” she said, holding her ball in preparation for her turn. “This town will have opera once again.”

“But what 

 opera,” everyone else in the league asked her. “Is a kind of plant? Does it have rough, leathery skin?”

But she wouldn’t say anything more, and just let go of the ball, which was then carried by a creature named Erika (who definitely wasn’t an angel) down the lane while Erika said “Roll, roll! This is a ball rolling!” And then Erika kicked over all the pins, while saying, “Crash! Bam! The ball just hit all these pins and knocked them all over! Wow! What a shot!”

Of course, none of us could…

 acknowledge the existence of Erika, so…we had to let the strike stand uncontested.

And now, an update on 

.

Just now, there was a Man in a Tan Jacket, holding a deerskin suitcase, looking over 

 shoulder. You’re sure of it. Only you don’t quite remember it happening. It’s blurry, and distant, like a dream you had when you were little, and now as an adult, you can’t remember if it was a dream or something that actually happened to you.

But there 

 a man.

There was a man, right?

You grasp to recall, but flail only at fragments and gap.

He was looking over your shoulder with interest, a deerskin suitcase in his right hand. The suitcase was making a buzzing sound. Perhaps the man was too? You don’t remember.

“None of this is real,” you think. “None of it happened. This is fiction. You are hearing a fictional story, and this did not happen to you.”

Still, you can’t shake the feeling that it 

 happen to you; that just moments ago, you turned, and over your shoulder was the Man in a Tan Jacket, holding a deerskin suitcase. He might still be there now. You’re afraid to check. Or, maybe, you already checked, and now can’t remember doing it.

You turn to look.

Nothing there.

You turn back.

“Nothing there,” you think with relief. Only, now, there is a question mark on it. “Nothing there? 

 there nothing there?”

The Man in the Tan Jacket spoke to you, quite urgently, about…

, but 

 He had a map. He was pointing at a place on the map. Now, you don’t even know what area of the world the map depicted, let alone where he was pointing.

“This is all a made-up story,” you tell yourself. You decide to feel entertained by the made-up story I just told to you.

And yet…

And yet……

You can’t shake the feeling, a feeling located just over your shoulder, that this made-up story might 

 be made-up at all.

Oh. Ohhh, my. Listeners, the sun is gone! It is not covered by a cloud; it has 

, and we know that the sun is generally pretty brave and only leaves when something very frightening indeed is in the area. What could have frightened the sun away?

Now is the time, I'm– I’m sure. Now is the time you need to know the list. Try to remember. Did you write it down, perhaps? Scramble around in the junk drawer in the kitchen, among take-out menus that are years out of date, and fliers for health clubs that you never joined. Try to find where you wrote down that list.

But it is too late! There is a 

 that comes from everywhere. Some sort of shape descends from the sunless clouds, and a voice, like through a loudspeaker, tells us that now is the time to recite the list, or else!

This is it. If you don’t know, then you don’t know. I know, at least that. I know. Oh! Did Carlos know? Thank the mysterious lights in the sky he wasn’t here! Who knows if his brain, so packed with science, would have let a few stray bits of language slip from his memory!

Listeners – those left to listen – I take you now, reciting the list, reciting for your very lives, to the weather.

Hazelnut

Mystify

Cuttlefish

Lark

Lurk

Ro–

[“

” by 

]

Beat

Beat

Beat

Beat

Beat

Oh. I am still here. I am looking at my fingers. I am examining my limbs, I am placing one hand on my chest (like in the chanted blood oaths we were forced to swear to the flag each morning as children), and I feel the circulation of air and fluid throughout my body, the simple machine of liquid dynamics and electrical impulses that sustains through some ridiculous coincidence of physical law, the sentience through which I am speaking to you.

Everything seems to be in order…in that I am nervous, and uncertain, and feel an emptiness sometimes which can never be filled, which maybe 

 be filled, and a sadness sometimes which wells up regardless of context or reason.

So, everything perfectly in order. I’m 

.

We are, as a community, stepping out into the street. We are gathering in open places. I, too, am going. I, too, am stepping out into the street and gathering in open places. Here we all are, in Mission Grove Park, and 

, among 

, speaking into this microphone which, as always, I am uncertain is even connected to anything, but…I don’t care. Either way. Because I know I am connected to all of you, now.

I have felt disconnected lately. My being has been split between the here and the now, and the 

 and the now. My relationship with Carlos currently exists within the idea of distance, within the concept of space, rather than in any specific place.

There have been moments where I have doubted my fellow citizens, or have felt perhaps even 

 by them.

But that is not the case now, in this moment, here, in this park.

Diane Creighton is with her son Josh, who this morning is a meadowlark. I feel only love for them.

Jackie Fiero, from the pawn shop, is showing Frances Donaldson of the Antiques Mall a cool knife that someone pawned by running in, shouting “Hide this!” and running out. There is nothing not to trust and adore about this moment between fellow humans.

A cluster of Hooded Figures lurk along the corner of the park, pointing at various people, seeming to leer and laugh at the oblivious citizens. I am terrified of the Hooded Figures. But also, comforted by their menace. I think they are even pointing now at me, whispering, and I’ve never felt more at home.

Janice, my young niece Janice, is here, joined with the rest of us in the park, along with her family whom I don’t like to talk about much, but whom I tolerate in all the requisite familial ways. Janice is with her friends Edmond, and Megan, and Patrice, and she’s waving to me, and I am waving back. I am so glad she remembered the list. I’m glad we all did. There doesn’t seem to be a single person missing. I counted, and every single resident of Night Vale is in the park, and doing fine. We heave our shoulders to express release, we sigh to show others we are relieved. We all breathe once, in unison, accidentally.

“Wilson?” says one of us to another. “How are things going, Wilson?”

“Oh, you know,” says the other, although he does not know. “How are things with you, Amber?”

“Oh, good,” she says. And she is right. Things are good.

And they both take the hand of the person they love, and Amber smiles at Wilson, and Wilson smiles at Amber, and everyone smiles at everyone and at everything, and no one is 

, exactly, but we’re outside and we’re smiling. And that is a kind of perfection of its own.

Oh. Uh, a Sheriff’s Secret Police representative arrives in the usual way, by rappelling from the sky and crashing into the middle of our happy huddle, in a…

 in a cloud of tear gas and flashing lights. As several people choke and disperse, the representative shouts to us that today was only a drill, that no one was in danger, that this was not actually the day we needed to know the list, although that day may someday come, is already coming, is imminent in the most general meaning of the word imminent, and that we are safe but that we are also in grave danger. We are both at once, and are thus free to fully enjoy our lives. A representative shouts into a bullhorn from somewhere behind a line of armored vans.

So, there you are, listeners. All of you who have escaped the tear gas to listen to these words, we were safe all along, and we will stay safe until that time – sooner or later but definitely always on its way – when we are 

 safe once again.

Stay tuned next for a surprised man shuffling papers frantically and saying, “Uh, uh, uh” into a mic he did not expect to be on.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 58 - Monolith


If it looks like a duck, and it quacks like a duck…you should not be so quick to jump to conclusions.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners, someone built a monolith in front of City Hall overnight.

Last night, there was no 15-foot tall, two-foot thick rectangle made of blue slate towering over the faded grass and weakened tulip garden in front of City Hall. But now, there is. A monolith, with indifferent geometry and a long, sharp shadow cast by the low morning sun. It is an ominous construction, channeling ancient powers and long-dead gods. Perhaps, it is even connected to our primordial extra-terrestrial ancestry. And now, just a few days before Christmas, this looming, dark stone shows up mysteriously in the night, casting scornful shadows across both our dreams and our primitive understanding of the world.

It’s super-festive and I love it! Whoever put that thing up, good job! It must weigh…20 tons? Don’t know how you did it, but way to get us all into the holiday spirit!

I talked to Carlos the other night, listeners. He’s still trapped in the…[clears throat] not trapped. I told him I’d stop saying he’s trapped in the desert otherworld. He is…doing work there.

He said after a few months of feeling helpless he’s made some friends, like the giant soldiers Doug and Alicia, and even gotten a lot of research done. He doesn’t feel trapped at all. I told him that he was locked in that alternate desert against his will, and has been unable to return so, that seems to me like a pretty strong definition of “trapped.”

He said he used to feel that way. But now he no longer feels threatened by the rumbling beneath the sand, or the strange armies that move about the beige wastescape. None of them fighting, only…wandering.

He feels like this desert – the most scientifically interesting place in the 

 – is where he needs to be. For now.

He quoted that old adage, “when God closes a door, God opens a window, then God cracks a few knuckles, then God kicks a pine cone up the sidewalk. God also chews a whole bunch of gum. God recently quit smoking, and is 

.”

Carlos used that classic saying to point out that this desert is a great opportunity for his career as a scientist. And I respect that.

I asked if he found an old oak door with only one side that could possibly bring him back to Night Vale.

He said he hadn’t, but then he asked, “Cecil, if I find that doorway, would you…maybe…come here again? Just for a visit. I want you to meet Alicia. Alicia has a Bichon Frisé the size of a Prius, and is really into astronomy. They also showed me some planets and comets they really like. Also, the constellations change 

 here! There are new shapes of mythic heroes in the sky every night. I’d love you to come visit,” Carlos told me.

[Sigh]

“We’ll see. It does sound nicer than I remember,” I said.

“Neat,” he said.

I’d love to be near Carlos again. We’ve had a great time talking nearly every night, but it’s…hard to know how much meeting eyes or touching hands 

 until it’s gone. Plus, I could use a vacation. Other than that brief escape through the same desert otherworld this spring, I don’t think I’ve been out of Night Vale since…wow, um, Luftnarp? Svitz. Ugh. Time flies, comma, is weird.

Oh, big news! This Wednesday afternoon is the opening ceremony of the revitalized Old Town Drawbridge. Because of massive setbacks two years ago, and a complete lack of a body of water that would even necessitate a drawbridge, the opening was delayed by 14 years – including a budget increase of over 20 million dollars. So, technically, we’re still 12 years away from completion, but the City Council though we might as well have the opening ceremony now.

“We’ve already burned through the 20 million dollars,” the City Council announced in unison via conference call from a cruise ship. The Council were all wearing matching sunglasses and floppy hats, and drinking a pastel liquid through long curly straws out of one large pineapple.

The opening ceremony will be held in a collective shared daydream Wednesday afternoon. So, make sure you’re doing something that is unchallenging (both physically and mentally) on Wednesday so you can drift off into this fun community dream event.

We’re starting to get complaints about the new monolith that appeared overnight in front of City Hall. The monolith has begun to 

. I mean, not by much, don’t freak out over a hovering monolith. It’s, like, two or three inches. Not a full foot, or more.

The complaints, though, are not about the hovering. They’re about the placement of the monolith. Our town (and country for that matter) was based on the separation of ancient long-dead religions and state.

Juanita Jefferson, head of the community organization 

, announced her group’s protest against a prominent symbol of old gods and possibly our primordial extra-terrestrial origins being displayed on government property.

The City Council retorted by slurping their cocktail loudly from the still-active Skype connection on a nearby Acer laptop that no one knew how to turn off.

Jefferson added, “Treeeeeeeees! They are us!” then bit into a small metal pipe wrapped in a hot dog bun. While she chewed, we could still hear her speaking clearly, “Treeeeeeeeeeeeeeees!” she said, her closed mouth moving in slow, undulating cast iron crunches.

Several others have come to Jefferson’s side in this issue, claiming that while they still fervently worship old gods (many showing off bloodstained shoes and sharp rocks wrapped in strips of flesh), they do not believe it is the government’s place to express these beliefs so publicly.

“[Sound not entirely unlike the slurping of the last bits of a cocktail from the bottom of a large pineapple, followed by a loud ‘Aah’-sounding exhale],” came the City Council’s reply from the computer.

More on this controversy as it grows out of hand. But first, a word from our sponsor.

Today’s show is brought to you by silent self reflection.

Are you aware of what’s inside of you?

No, not soft meats and deadly microorganisms. 

 than that. What makes you 

?

How are you able to acknowledge that you are even a thing, separate from the rest of the universe?

Do you find yourself casting about in the white noise of the living world, your eardrums clogged with the filth of existence?

We here at Night Vale Community Radio recommend silent self reflection. Give it a try.

Here’s some silence. During this silence, reflect on yourself. Reflect on your life, your being. Close your eyes, and just reflect. Let in no sights, no sounds – and reflect.

Ready? Here goes.

[A span of complete silence]

Did you reflect? That was a 

 silence, right? Do you know how long that silence was? Ha-ha! It was two weeks! You’ve been unconscious for two full weeks! You’ve been pronounced legally dead! Your family misses you, but you’re finally free to be the living ghost you’ve always dreamed of being. Ha-ha-ha! Congratulations! Enjoy a life free of legal consequence.

And now, an update on the monolith.

Some protesters have shown up at City Hall carrying signs against the monolith. The signs read, “

,” and then a slash through that phrase. Which is confusing, because that seems like a double negative, but when you look closely, there’s also a line through the 

 part, so it’s a 

 negative, which reduces down to a single negative.

There are other signs that are just painted solid colors, so it looks like the monolith has lost the support of the abstract expressionist community as well.

Fortunately, the Sheriff’s Secret Police have already 

 kettled the protesters into a fenced-in section of a distant parking lot, where no one can see or hear their protests – thus keeping public order and still allowing for freedom of speech. A win-win.

Counter-protesters have also arrived in support of the monolith, demonstrating their distaste for people against the monolith. They’re holding signs that have a picture of a monolith or…maybe it’s the letter I, or L, or the number 1. It’s…hard to say, what with sans-serif fonts being all the rage these days.

Police have placed the counter-protesters into a pen, next to the original protesters, and covered both pens with an opaque and sound-proof velvet drape.

Oh! We’re getting word that the monolith is vibrating, and loudly humming. Also, it’s glowing. But I don’t know. I can’t feel or see that so…not really my problem now, is it?

Let’s have a look at sports.

The Night Vale High School Scorpions had a rough 2014 season. It was capped off by a scandal involving junior running back Maliq Herrera. The Scorpions had to forfeit all wins in which Herrera played because he violated district rules by never truly existing.

One of the team’s best defenders, senior safety Jessica Lexington, was sidelined most of the season with spinal parasites she got in late September after refusing to yield on a highway off-ramp.

Additionally, sophomore quarterback Henry Lexington, Jessica’s younger brother, struggled in his first season as a starter. By year end, he showed some improvement as coach Nazr al-Mujaheed worked with Lexington on holding the ball with his own hands, and throwing the ball with his own arms – not other people’s as he had been doing early in the season.

But, on the bright side, it looks like former Scorpions quarterback Michael Sandero has gone on to great success after graduation. Many of you know, Michael was recruited by a university called Mitch-igan. Mi– Mish– M– Mitch-again. Mitch-igan. Mishigan. Michigan. I’m not a big sports fan myself, so I have no idea what state the University of Mitchigan is located in, but apparently they have just completed an undefeated season with Michael as quarterback, and will compete in the college football playoffs against another school called…Ollabomma. Again, sounds like a private school. I’ve never heard that name before.

Michigan is favored to win the title this year, and Michael is a front-runner for the Heisman Trophy, given to college football’s best player. His control over weather elements and powerful pyrokinesis skills proved invaluable to a previously struggling Mitchigan offense.

Good luck, Michael! Your hometown is cheering for you!

An update on the glowing and shaking monolith:

The earth below it has split open, and the Secret Police have issued a statement saying they regret silencing the original protesters. They have since let the protesters out, asking them to protest a little harder.

“Also, protest 

, okay?” the Secret Police shouted at the confused protesters, whose eyes were still adjusting to the bright daylight after being in a dark pen all afternoon. “Try getting right up on the thing, and protesting!” the officers called from behind their cruisers.

The Secret Police also asked counter protesters to try 

 to the monolith.

“You like it so much, why don’t you marry it?” the Secret police teased, before adding, “No, no, seriously, go talk to that thing, OK? It is freaking us out!”

But all protesters have scattered from the scene.

The monolith is now shaking violently. I can– I can 

 it, here in the station. I can feel it throughout my body. My skin is rattling! I can see the great green glow. It is so bright! The cement walls of our station seem almost to be fading!

So, as our physical being becomes either rent into atomic mist, or subsumed by a sphere of cosmic energy, let me – in my final act as a tangible being – bring you today’s weather.

[“

” by 

]

Well, the monolith split open. There was a deafening crack of shattered stone, a flash of blinding light, the stench and taste of sulfur, as we felt rocky dust settling upon our cowardly crouching backs.

In the hazy aftermath we looked for the dead, and found none.

We looked for the wounded, and found none.

We looked for damaged streets and buildings, and found…well, we found presents. We found city streets strewn with gold-wrapped toys and parcels of fine chocolates. There were ornate bags filled with silk scarves and swirling gilded ribbons and glittery notes wishing every person in Night Vale season’s greetings, along with gift cards to popular stores like Target, and the Ralph’s, and Hatred.

Aaah, um, hmm. Look. I hate to rant. But given that Night Vale long ago abolished materialism, this seems like a cruel holiday prank. I– I’m glad no one was hurt, but this whole monolith thing was 

 annoying! It was not a deadly threat to our city or our lives, merely a time-wasting tribute to the worst qualities of the old gods. It took most of the afternoon to clean this up, but thankfully, it’s all been swept away and dumped into the landfill.

The City Council, upon hearing of the storm of holiday presents upon our town, swiftly and nobly returned from their tax-funded island vacation, and offered their condolences for us having to witness this consumerist assault.

They reminded us that Santa is a CIA-created myth, and that the holidays 

 be about buying things, or getting things, or even giving things.

“Christmas,” they chanted in unison, “is about being a little less distrustful of neighbors. Of casting our eyes down more respectfully when we pass Hooded Figures, or people wearing some kind of official-looking firearm. Christmas is about being at home with family. Doors locked, everyone speaking clearly, and within range of the hidden cameras.”

At that moment, a low-flying police helicopter passed over City Hall, its searchlight frantically flashing across the terrified faces of every single citizen. It was truly a magical Christmas moment, and the whole crowd winced with holiday cheer.

One lone person asked, “But isn’t Christmas a religious holiday? Should the city really be promoting a religious holiday?”

The City Council quickly replied, “Not any religion that 

 aware of!” and the Secret Police kindly ushered that grumpy Scrooge off to a less public place.

Night Vale, sometimes we see something strange and different, and our first reaction is to loathe and fear it, to bring rage and scorn against its very being, but that’s not the Christmas spirit. This is the time of year we must learn to not shout down things we don’t know or understand, but simply 

 from them, and later pretend they were never there at all.

And today, we mostly did that. We 

 did good, Night Vale!

Huh. Maybe it will be a merry Christmas for everyone. Maybe, this is an auspicious start to the holidays.

Hey! That’s the best part about the future. Anything you want to be possible 

 possible – as long as you don’t think about it too hard.

Stay tuned next for the sound of something clawing its way out of your chest.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

other

Episode 59 - Antiques


It’s not darkest before the dawn. It’s actually darkest after all the stars have gone out. It’s 

 dark then.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

We begin this new year with some troubling news. Frances Donaldson, owner of the Antiques Mall, has reported that some of her antiques have escaped. She said that when she fed them this morning, they were all accounted for. But when she went back for the usual mid-afternoon watering, the fence had been cut and over half of the antiques were missing.

“They didn’t escape,” she corrected reporters, who were just trying to talk to her a bit about what had happened, were just doing their best to help her out, and so didn’t need to have their heads bitten off for using a different word, but…whatever.

“They didn’t escape,” she said. “They were set free.”

All surveillance cameras in the immediate vicinity – and this is not a particularly interesting or dangerous part of Night Vale, so there were only three hundred and forty-four – had been disabled, or moved to point away from the antiques pen, or had their tapes replaced with VHS cassettes full of Matlock episodes, recorded and re-recorded over each other so that each tape shows ghosts of every Matlock at once – a single, unified, Matlock, through the flicker and warp of video age.

The Secret Police warn citizens that antiques are wild animals, and while generally friendly, their behavior can be unpredictable. If you see an antique, do not approach it. Simply put your hands over your chest, scream “We’re all about to be eaten!” and run blindly away.

“Although it’s possible this may cause the antique to instinctually go into hunting behavior and chase you. We didn’t bother to check. Look, we were kind of busy. Was there something stopping you from doing this research?” the Sheriff’s Secret Police concluded, before shaking their heads and melting back into the walls.

StrexCorp Synernists Inc., the company you 

 remember as our former unfriendly overlords – or you might not remember them if your memory has been altered or erased. Anyway, StrexCorp is, of course, owned by beings that are…difficult to describe without using the 

 term “angels,” but who are all named Erika. As part of their continual process to turn the power of StrexCorp toward the betterment of our world, the Erikas have started the process of releasing those people whose lives StrexCorp took possession of, back during what could be termed it’s “bad boy days” or “dystopian capitalist hell days” – whichever you prefer.

Among those released is Janice Rio (from down the street), last seen entering a condo, which you should 

 never do. 

Also released: Lucy and Hannah Gutierrez, former owners of the former White Sand Ice Cream Shop that’s bankruptcy led to their lives being confiscated by Strex. They are looking well and fit, no worse for the wear than any ordinary person who is, say, imprisoned by the City Council in the Abandoned Mine Shaft outside of town for voting incorrectly on municipal elections. Ha-ha, we all experience extra-legal extended imprisonment at 

 point in our lives, after all.

They pledge to restart their ice cream shop, and are currently running a Kickstarter to gather together the funds. In order to get better results, the Kickstarter is labeled as being for a blender you can plug an iPhone into to get real-time blending stats and earn blending points on The Blending Community. It is not actually for that, though, it’s for an ice cream shop! And I don’t know about you, but I can’t wait to have another bite of that magical Gutierrez ice cream.

Chad Bowinger, who lives in the Shambling Orphan housing development down by the Haunted Baseball Diamond, said “It is a sadness, what we do to each other. It is a weeping, and a gnashing of teeth.”

I don’t think this was in relation to StrexCorp, or Kickstarter, but he walked by and said that to me, so I thought I’d throw it in. Thanks, Chad!

And now another edition of the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

Stick out your tongue. Farther…farther…is that 

 as far as you can get it? I bet you can get it a little farther than that!

Wow! That’s, like, three feet! Honestly, I– I expected an inch or so. Uh!Oh! Uh…now it’s at five feet! How– how long is your tongue? How long is a tongue supposed to be? Um, uh, can we get someone to check on that?

Th– this is starting to freak me out a little, your endless tongue. This was supposed to be a fun and challenging exercise, but now I’m questioning everything about myself and my life. I'm– I’m shivering! Your– your tongue is reaching out the door, it’s down the street, it– it’s rolling out of town! Look how far your tongue stretches!

You have 

 done well, young child. But you’ve certainly done 

. You certainly have.

And somewhere, the tip of your tongue is still rolling on, tasting a world that neither it nor you can see.

Say, are you related to uh…huh…never mind. That doesn’t matter.

Oh, god! Oh god, that…that tongue! That 

 infinite tongue!

This has been the Children’s…Fun Fact…Science…Corner.

There are many reports coming in about the missing antiques. People have seen antique tracks, have heard creatures rooting around in their garbage, grazing on their lawns, loping through their back yards. It has been difficult to tell which direction the antiques are moving, because many of these reports contradict each other and most are likely people mixing up the antiques with other similar-looking animals, like owls, or hyenas, or bacteria.

Intern Maureen, who has, all told, been intern longer than anyone I can remember – well done, Maureen! – anyway, Maureen is back at school right now, so her friend Hector is taking over for a bit. Hi, Hector! Great to have you on.

Intern Hector is waving, he’s saying hello, he doesn’t have a mic, so his “hello” doesn’t exist for you. Nothing exists for you outside of my voice saying it does.

Anyway, Hector, can you do me a favor and go check out what’s going on with the escaped antiques? Reports are muddled, and we need someone on the ground, so to speak. 

 the ground, as they say. Buried deep in the earth, as the saying goes, to understand what’s really going on here.

Hector is nodding – now that nod exists for you.

Goodbye, Hector. Until we see you again, very soon and very well, I’m sure.

Now, this.

Imagine a man.

This is a simple command, leading to millions of conceivable scenarios. Imagine this man. Every possible physical form, location, and condition that a man can be in. Perhaps this man has been dead so long he is dust. Perhaps you are imagining dust, and perhaps you are not wrong.

Imagine a man.

Imagine him. There is a buzzing light bulb above him. He is standing on what could loosely be called the porch of what could loosely be called a tin shack. The light bulb buzzes and buzzes. He looks up in irritation. You were wrong to imagine him as dust. Do you have him now? Do you know what he looks like?

Imagine a man.

No. No, I’m sorry, no. You were incorrect. [Heavy sigh] And so the weekly “Find the Man I’m Thinking Of” contest will roll over to the next week. This is the three hundredth consecutive week without a winner, and the prize for next week will be the three hundred and one custom made pencils that say “I won a thing.”

Ugh. I hope someone wins soon. The giant box of pencils here? Starting to get in the way of things.

Ohhh! Guess who’s in the studio with me! Well, not actually 

 me, but projecting himself into our physical plane. That’s right, my favorite scientist and yours, but mostly mine, Carlos!

 Carlos, I know we just talked last night, but for the listeners, why don’t you tell us what’s new out in the desert otherworld you’re trap– oop! Uh, the desert otherworld you’re 

 in.

 That sounds very scientific.

 Oh-ho-ho, yes. I am also 

 into science. But I miss, you know, touching! I miss 

! Listeners, you can’t see, but I’m trying to hold his hand, and my hand is just going through him because he’s not actually here.

 No, I– I know. I suppose it couldn’t hurt to take a little visit. But I need to be back in my radio desk soon. It can be difficult to ask station management for time off of work.

 Me neither!

 Oh, ok! Me neither!

 Uhhhh….ahem. Well. Thank you so much for this 

 report that had important information for everyone in town. Thanks, Carlos.

 Bad news, listeners. It seems that the antiques have gathered around City Hall and are behaving in threatening ways toward anyone trying to leave or enter. We are getting reports that while City Council has already safely evacuated (using a rocket sled that they keep for this very purpose), mayor Dana Cardinal is still trapped inside.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police are responding quickly by issuing press releases to explain why it’s 

 not their job to deal with this situation because, frankly, it seems pretty dangerous and scary. They said that they have activated all available officers to work hard on deflecting responsibility away from them.

As the Sheriff’s Secret Police slogan goes, “Not our job, not our problem.”

Oh, no! Oh no! Um, I’m being told that the antiques have found a way into City Hall. The pack is entering the building. City Hall has been infiltrated by hungry antiques with no one left to protect our mayor!

Who will protect Dana? Someone! Someone must! Will no one step forward? Will 

? Is anyone even listening to this? What– what kind of town 

 we? What kind of town are we?

Also, here’s the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Well, listeners. Well, well, listeners. It seems…it seems that all is well!

We don’t know 

, but our beloved mayor is safe once again. A person of unknown identity appeared on the scene, running into the City Hall and single-handedly defending the mayor’s office against the pack of antiques.

This was…

 of that person. That person could have been killed, or gravely wounded! Maybe they 

! We don’t know who the person is, or where they went, and so their fate is as nonexistent as anything else I do not or cannot voice.

Mayor Cardinal gave a message of thanks, saying “Whoever you are, thank you. I do not speak for the town or for the city government. I speak for myself, as a person, as a human full of blood and worry. Thank you for keeping me safe,” she said.

Pamela Winchell, Director of Emergency Press Conferences, held an emergency press conference in which she added to the mayor’s statement by saying, “Clouds are the belt of the sky. Cinch them tighter! Make the clouds go tighter! Make the sky come closer!” before hurling herself into the sky, until she was just a dot in the upward distance.

So, that seems to be another crisis averted, albeit in a sudden and – if I may be frank, as a journalist – narratively unsatisfactory way. Perhaps we will never know who that unknown savior is, or who the unknown liberator of the antiques was. Perhaps we will never know 

. We have certainly never known anything yet.

Oh, but wait! Oh, intern Hector is returning. Um, hey, Hector? Did you see who the unknown benefactor was? Uh, do you have any information?

Oh, no! Hector is…

 He is holding up his arm. There is a tear in the skin, a deep and jagged oval. He has been bitten. Oh, Hector! It was 

, wasn’t it? I sent you to report and instead you involved yourself, and…and I thank you for doing so. Ordinarily that would be a violation of journalistic standards, which clearly say we should 

 help when we could merely watch, but…Dana! Dana is a friend of mine, and so I thank you for ignoring our sacred rules just this once.

I’ll be honest, I– I– I wouldn’t have thought Hector was the type to do something like that, or even physically strong enough to fight off an entire pack of antiques, but…people can surprise you. That is one of the things that people can do.

But…Hector! That bite! You know what happens to someone who is bit by an antique.

Hector is unable to speak. 

 unable to speak since he arrived.

Listeners, of course, anyone bitten by an antique 

 an antique themselves.

Oh, intern Hector, if only there was something I could do for you!

Oh! Oh! He– he is transforming, and his body is elongating, and lowering. His shoulders turn to haunches, his arms to wings. Ugh. His feet to bladed molty legs. He is becoming an antique before my eyes, and I can do nothing for him! For this brave young person who saved my dear friend Dana!

Hector!

He is out of sight now. I can hear only a click, and a shuddering movement. Must’ve fully transformed into an antique.

Hector? Hector! Is there any trace of your old self left? Or are you already hunting me?

Ugh. How good are the bolts on the studio door? He– he– he– he– he can’t come in here, can he?

[Gasp]

I hear a rattling in the ceiling, and there is a clear viscous substance dripping onto my desk. I dare not look for its source.

[Heavy breathing]

Um, ahem. Coming up next, [heavy breathing] hopefully, the sound of my successful escape from this room! Ah! What just touched me?

Hector? Hector!

Well, uh, this is it. Uh, one way or another, uh, here I go, listeners. And here you go, ha-ha, off into radio silence, into places and times where my voice can no longer guide you.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight!

[Sound of Cecil making for the studio door, along with another unidentified sound; following dialogue comes from a distance away from the microphone]

I made it! I totally made it! I’m fine! I’m fine!

Uh, to the family and friends of intern Hec–

Episode 6 - The Drawbridge


Rabbits are not what they seem to be.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

We’ve had some power outages reported throughout Night Vale in the last couple of hours. If you’re experiencing one…well then you can’t hear me, can you?

The Night Vale Municipal Utility Department said that they are still working to determine the cause of the outages, which are roving back and forth across town in a continuous motion, like a great pacing beast. Those whose neighborhoods have been hit by the outages reported the shriek of hawks overhead, and that when the lights came back on, they felt that perhaps they were different people – their memories and identities were the same as always, but suddenly felt like costumes that didn’t fit exactly. 

The revitalization of the Old Town Drawbridge experienced another setback this week, as engineers determined that the furniture upholstery used to construct the bridge towers soaks up water and creates an unstable foundation. This week’s collapse was the third in as many months.

Construction crews have tried building the bridge tower base supports from corrugated cardboard, non-dairy creamer, and ceramic bowls. Nothing has worked.

Engineers are asking for help in determining how proper bridge towers are made. If you have any tips, please write them on notebook paper and mail them to

Bridge Magic, LLC

PO Box 616

Do not use cursive or long words. Clearly labeled drawings are preferred.

Ladies and gentlemen, it’s that time of year again. Time for our annual pledge drive. Sorry to have to do this, but, you know, Night Vale has a lot of community-supported radio, and the thing about community-supported radio…it’s supported by listeners like you. 

Any amount you can give will help us continue our community programming. A dollar, or two, or even plasma.

Take WZZZ, our local numbers station, broadcasting from that strange and tall antenna built out back of the Abandoned Gas Station on Oxford Street. Did you know that it broadcasts a monotone female voice reading out seemingly random numbers interspersed with chimes twenty four hours a day, seven days a week? As you can imagine, that kind of work doesn’t bring in a lot of money – unless it does.

To be honest, here at Night Vale Radio we don’t know exactly what that station is for, or what master it is serving. But I do know that it is a vital part of this community, and we should pitch in to help it. We welcome your support. Give us a call! We don’t have a number; just whisper, “Forsaken Algonquinia" into your phone receiver, and Angels, or Facebook, or something, will deliver us an appropriate contribution from your bank account.

More on the Drawbridge debacle. It was turmoil in city headquarters this morning. Following this latest in a long line of municipal failures, the city council has come under fire from concerned citizens for wasting taxpayer money on inefficient services that go over budget and over schedule.

One critic, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “We don’t even have a river or bay in Night Vale. There would never be a boat to necessitate a drawbridge!“ He continued to…

You know what? Forget it. I can tell you right now that that was Steve Carlsberg who said that, and he is 

 a spoilsport, that Steve! Have you ever noticed how he never replaces his hubcaps? It’s laziness, pure and simple. 

. I just can’t let him ruin our town by denying Night Vale a drawbridge when he can’t even care for a tan Corolla!

The Night Vale Daily Journal has announced that, due to spiraling printing costs, they will be replacing the print edition of the paper with a special new Imagination Edition. Editor Leann Hart explains, “Instead of confining our customers to the outdated modes of ink on paper, we are allowing them to choose the news that interests them by imagining whatever news they want. This will not only save costs, but allow customers to experience the news as a full color, full motion 

 taking place in a mental world that is tailored to their needs.”

Subscription to this edition will be compulsory and automatic, and will cost a mere $60 a month.

This Friday, at Night Vale High’s Memorial Stadium, it’s the annual softball showdown between the Night Vale Fire Department and the Sheriff’s Secret Police. Proceeds from the game will go to support development of nuclear weaponry for a strongly religious Indonesian militia that is looking to overthrow their heretical government, as well as to the Make-A-Wish Foundation.

So, even if you don’t like softball, come on out and support a couple of great causes. Last year’s game ended in a rout, as the Secret Police hit three home runs in the eighth and ninth innings.

The firefighters claimed that there was some 

 involved (pun intended, dear listeners), as their entire bullpen was assassinated in the middle innings with blow darts. Those murders remain unsolved and completely uninvestigated. 

It should be a fun one! Expect a real revenge-minded fire department to take the field on Friday. Tickets are only $10, or $5 if you bring enriched yellowcake uranium. Black helicopters will be mind-scanning the town on game day, hunting down those who do not attend. The first 500 fans receive surgically applied working gills.

Notice: there is 

 digital, static-y hum coming from the Dog Park, Mayor Pamela Winchell announced today. The mayor stressed repeatedly in her 90 second impromptu press conference that there is 

 unbearable, soul-tearing sound that rips at the sinews of your very being coming from the Dog Park.

Mayor Winchell continued with a plea for all Night Vale residents to understand that there could not possibly be a deeply coded message emanating from a small, fenced-in patch of municipal grass and dirt.

Citizens are not even supposed to be consciously 

 of the Dog Park, so they could not possibly be receiving a menacing and unearthly voice instructing listeners to bring precious metals and toddlers to the Dog Park.

 she repeated. “That could never, 

 be real,” the mayor shouted, pounding the podium with her bleeding fists.

There were no follow-up questions.

And now, a word from our sponsors!

[moaning sound]

And now, traffic.

There’s a stalled car on the northbound on-ramp to the Eastern Expressway just south of Route 800. Commuters should have little delays, as Highway Patrol is fiercely denying this report.

In fact, police representatives have just issued a statement claiming that there are no cars 

, and, “What are you doing, talking about them, talking silly lies, you silly people? There are no cars! What is this fiction? Oh, please, do you seriously believe for a second? Wait. Wait! You thought that cars were 

“ The Highway Patrol continued, “Oh, that is rich.”

All other roads seem clear. Expect delays, of course, at the drawbridge construction site, because it is years away from being competently finished.

Here are this week’s horoscopes.

Virgo: Go see a movie today. It’s a great escape! Especially from all this pollution and dangerous UV radiation. Say, is that mole new?

Libra: Your dreams will be filled with prophetic visions. Write them down. Hopefully, there are some lottery numbers or sports scores in there.

Scorpio: Curse you! Curse your family! Curse your children! And your children’s children! Vile, vile Scorpio.

Sagittarius: Eat well today! You’ve earned it. And by 

, I mean massive food allergies. And by 

, I mean acquired. I should proof this stuff before I read it out loud. Let’s try that again. You’ve acquired massive food allergies. Yes, much cleaner. Eat well!

Capricorn: Those were not contact lenses you put in this morning. Best not think about this again.

Aquarius: The white ball will be under the middle shell. Trust the stars. Invest all your money in this lucrative street game.

Pisces: You’ve won a brand new car!

Aries: You will feel a haunting sadness about times gone by. Today’s smell is wheatgrass and toast.

Taurus: Today is your annual Crime Day. All Tauruses are exempt from laws today.

Gemini: You will meet someone today who will have no effect on your life, and who you will immediately forget. Retain hope for a possible future.

Cancer: I’ve gotta pay my phone bill, and also get some more milk. That wasn’t me talking; that is what the stars say today. Interpret it as you will.

Leo: It’s better that I don’t read this aloud. Better that you not know. Tell your family that you love them.

That has been this week’s horoscopes.

Good news for radio-controlled airplane hobbyists! Those unidentifiable black metallic trees that suddenly appeared by the library back in June and caused all airborne objects above thirty feet to catch fire? Well, they’ve finally been cleared away, as a new strip mall and parking lot are being developed.

The Night Vale Airport, local birdwatchers, and that nice epileptic couple who run the Emergency Services helicopter are just pleased as pleased can be about the news.

Several petitions, however, have cropped up from neighborhood improvement organizations. Juanita Jefferson, head of one such organization, Night Vale Or Nothing, said, “Treees! They are 

!”

Jefferson then paused for several minutes without blinking and whispered again, “Treeeees,” before collapsing into tears and loud moaning.

Jefferson was then taken by helicopter to Night Vale General Hospital, where she is reportedly in stable condition. This morning, Jefferson’s lawyer issued a statement saying: “My client fully recognizes the irony of this helicopter trip, but she stands by her earlier pronouncement, ‘Trees, trees; they are us.’"

Meanwhile, I hear from trustworthy informants that there will be a Pinkberry at the new strip mall. 

This just in on Drawbridgegate: The City Council said that, in response to 

 week’s collapse, they will increase the project budget by $20 million over the next 14 years – the new timeline for the bridge.

Money for these extra expenses will come from school lunch programs, a 65% hotel tax, and a $276 bridge toll, which will be discounted to $249 with E-Z Pass.

And now for a station editorial.

Large, expensive projects are not uncommon in Night Vale. We are a patient, but resilient, little city. We have big dreams – s

And now, the weather!

[“

” by 

]

Apparently, the Sheriff’s Secret Police 

 with me about old Steve Carlsberg, dear listeners. We just received a report from a reliable witness that two days ago, Steve was whisked into the back of a windowless van, only to reappear earlier this morning wearing thick head bandages and eating styrofoam shaped like an ice cream cone.

I want to take this moment to thank all of you out there, for all of the generous donations you may or may not be aware that you just made.

During this show, we have raised just a hair over $45,000, which includes a $45,000 donation from a certain anonymous world leader. I can’t tell you 

…let’s just say, muchos gracias, El Presidente! Mano dura, cabeza, y corazón.

Thank you again for your involuntary support of community radio. We couldn’t do it without the support of listeners like you, in conjunction with unethical contributions from nefarious organizations.

And with that, I leave you alone with your thoughts, folks.

Stay tuned next for Zydeco: Note By Note – a special two-hour verbal description of what zydeco music sounds like.

Buenos noches, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 60 - Water Failure


See some evil, hear some evil, speak some evil.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Sorry to start the show off with such a minor issues, but the water here at the station is not working. I was trying to make coffee – I got out the filters, grabbed some whole beans from the larder, finely ground them using a hammer and hateful thoughts, and placed them, one ground at a time, into the coffee machine – but when I went to fill the carafe, there was no water. I turned the faucet handle and just heard a faint hiss.

45 minutes worth of coffee preparation for nothing!

This also means the toilets aren’t working. Fortunately, there’s a huge ravine right next door to the station, so…that’s that taken care of.

Honestly, I – I probably shouldn’t lead off my show with a personal complaint about how there’s no water, instead of an important news story like how there are suddenly two suns instead of one, but I can’t 

 it! I just get all worked up about a lack of coffee!

It’s fine. I’ll be fine.

But…yeah, there are definitely two suns now, and people are screaming in the streets. It’s pretty apocalyptic out there, with buildings being burned down and cars wrecking into fire hydrants and people running in all directions, mouths agape, clutching their heads. So stay inside, and avoid thinking too hard about the capriciousness of our only home: the indifferent universe.

Let’s have a look now at sports.

Former Night Vale High School quarterback Michael Sandero had a fantastic freshman season at the University of Michigan. He won the Heisman trophy, and his team made it to the national championship game. Unfortunately, they lost in overtime to…Michigan. It was the first time in college football history that a team had to play against itself in the title game. Down by three points in overtime, Sandero threw a late interception, thus sealing his team’s loss.

Sitting dejected on the bench, their heads hung low, and shoulders sagging under the weight of regret, Sandero and his teammates could only watch as the 

 Sandero and his teammates celebrated their victory over themselves.

The winning Michigan team celebrated on the field until late into the night – everyone else having long since gone home, and the lights turned out – until a flock of starlings covered their cheering, dancing bodies, and carried them all into the sky.

Speaking through a Russian translator, the losing Sandero said, “I do not know where I am. Where is Michigan? I am so confused right now! Who are you? 

” He was staring suspiciously at his own hands and crying.

Better luck next year, Michael! You can do it!

Many listeners have been wondering if I’ll be taking time off work to go visit Carlos in his desert otherworld. Well, the answer is…

 I certainly would like to. I miss him so much, but…first, Carlos has to find the doorway between our worlds. Also, even trickier, I have to get vacation days approved by our Station Management – which is 

 easy.

I filled out the special form to request days off, which includes writing a 2,500-word description of what I will be doing with my time away from work. It had to be 

 two thousand five hundred words. And I’m not sure if hyphenated words count as one or two.

Anyway, I submitted my form last Wednesday by going to Station Management’s office door, genuflecting, and reciting the Pledge of Employee Fealty, which is several minutes long. I was actually blocking the only path to the kitchen, so by the time I finished there was a long line of coworkers waiting on me. All of them, at some point, have gone through this same emotionally devastating process, when they wanted to visit a new nephew or go on a honeymoon or something. So, they were understanding.

But…I chose to do this around noon, so they were also 

 hungry and frustrated.

Once I finished the Pledge, I dropped the form into the drop box, which then glowed red and puffed out dark smoke. When I got back to my desk area, all of my belongings were gone, and there was just an open pit, a hole that seemed to go on into eternity. And knowing Management, it likely does.

So the request was definitely received, and we’ll see what they come back with.

Oh! Oh, dear! Station Management sounds upset!

I– I– I– I d– I don’t know if– if it’s because I’m talking about them on the air, or if they’re just now finding out that the toilets aren’t working! Um, either way, uh…let's– let’s move on!

Uh, speaking of the water, 

 all of the taps in our building are blowing a cool, dry air that smells of…toasted walnuts, maybe. Or, no! Nooo! Like French toast! Either way, it’s 

. We’ve tried to turn off the faucets, but the handles just spin loosely and have seemingly no effect on the smell. We tried calling the plumber but they just screamed something about there being four suns.

“

” they howled into the phone, before muttering for a while about nothing being as it seems, we’ve been duped by God, all is lost, blah-blah, something-something living nightmares. So, I guess we’re going to have to contact the Water Department directly about this issue.

Oh! Also, I should have mentioned earlier, the two suns have now doubled to four suns. There are now four suns in the sky. So that’s awful. But listen! Better than no sun, right? Man, days with no sun are just the worst!

You know what’s 

 the worst? The sponsor of today’s show.

Our program is brought to you today by Chevrolet, and their new line of all-electric vehicles. These vehicles are made entirely of electricity. You already own one. There’s a Chevrolet inside your home’s wiring this very moment! Your microwave, your television…you will have to harness that power and learn to turn pure electricity into matter, and then that matter into an operational vehicle, and 

 figure out how to operate that vehicle.

But it’s all there! Right now! In your home!

In fact, since you already have the car, don’t you think you should have paid for it? Don’t you think you owe Chevrolet for the car you have? That’s how the world works! There are no free cars, pal! Nope! Please send $45,000 to Chevrolet right now.

Or, return the vehicle. You either pay the money, or return the car. One or the other. That’s only fair, right?

Chevrolet. 

Local television station Channel 6 has come under fire recently for their decision to start broadcasting into viewers’ homes, whether viewers want to watch Channel 6 or not. Many residents have written to their government representatives, saying it 

 violate some law for a television news station to broadcast straight into people’s homes without the residents even turning on their televisions.

“It must be a violation of privacy laws, right?” these letters often read. “Surely the government must step in to stop this,” the letters usually conclude.

“We hear your concerns, but the government 

 stop this,” the reply always says. “The local television news station is controlled, and managed, by the government, and it is 

 to be able to reach everyone in town at every point of the day with important news,” the letter always continues. “Like, let’s say there’s a tornado. A rare event here in the desert to be sure, but let’s just say,” the letter always supposes. “How would you know how to protect yourself from such a danger if there were no government-controlled television station that could turn on in your home and shout terse, esoteric orders in a foreign language, let’s say Russian (it doesn’t have to be Russian) as slow-motion footage of salamanders running out of a rotting log plays. How would you know?” the letter challenges. “

,” the letter declares.

“Maybe it’s 

 an emergency,” the letter concedes. “Maybe we just have something really exciting to tell you! Maybe we got a new stand mixer and we want you to see it. Or, maybe we’re feeling 

 and we just want to read you some poems we wrote. So, as you can see, the trustworthy local television news station must retain its powers,” the letter 

 concludes. “These powers help us care for you, citizen.”

The letter is always signed, “Night Vale City Council.” Those words are written in script dozens of times on top of itself, as if every member of the City Council signed it in a single moment, in a single space, without regard for physics or linear time.

Listeners, the unrelenting smell coming from the faucets is…too much! Everyone in the office is salivating because of the delicious stench of French toast. It’s impossible to work in this environment, and…oh, also because of the whole ravine thing. I’m calling the water department right now. This is ridiculous.

Plus, we’re all getting woozy and starting to lose our senses of sight, touch, and longing.

[Dialing sounds, phone rings on other end]

 Hello, and welcome to the City of…

 

 …Department of…

 

 …customer service line. Para continuar en Español, oprima el uno.

 Para continuar en Español doble, oprima el uno dos veces.

 To give praise to the Mighty Glow Cloud, …

 All hail!

 …press 3. To continue in English, press 4.

 There we go.

 If you are illuminati, pr –

 Thank you.

Do you have questions about, or want to pay your bill? Press 1. Are you changing address? Press 2. Do you no longer believe in the existence in water?

 I do have my doubts…

 Press 3. Are you confused as to the difference between water and sugary sodas? Press 4. Do you like cabbage? Press 5. Would you like to report a problem with your service? Press 6.

 If you are experiencing an emergency, please hang up and scream “Help! Police!” into any one of the many hidden monitoring devices in your home. If you’re not sure where the hidden devices in your home are, try calling for help into a doorknob, any large vases, a ceiling fan, any random microphone sticking out of your wall that you don’t recognize, or an elderly pet.

If you undervalue your own life, and the lives of others, so much that you feel that this could not possibly be an emergency, press the 

 button.

[Buzzing sound of Cecil pressing the 

 button]

 I’m sorry to hear you are having a problem with your service. If you have low or no water pressure, press 1.

 Hmmmmm…

 If you have a leak…

 Nooo…

 …press 2. If you tried calling once before for emergency help, only to find yourself serving a prison sentence for misuse of emergency services and now you are calling to argue semantics with a representative about our lack of definition of what constitutes an emergency, press 3. If your water has a strange color or odor, press 4.

 That 

 be…

 If something that is clearly not water and smells like a tasty breakfast food is hissing out of your faucets and causing you to stand on your chair like there’s a mouse in the room even though there’s really no escape from what very well may be a poisonous gas of some sort, and honestly you can’t fathom why you jumped onto this chair at all but it somehow makes you feel better, press 5.

 That’s it!

 If you are afraid of knives, –

 Please wait while we transfer you to a customer service representative.

 Oh. Oh, dear. Oh, I can't– I can’t wait much longer. I’m feeling…lightheaded. Please, hurry! Please? Pleeeease hurr–

 We are experiencing a heavier-than-usual call volume. Current wait time to speak to a service representative is…

 

 Sadly, a 

 can go wrong in…

 

 …but that’s just how it is. Thank you for your…

 

 You know there are…

 

 …set to explode any day now, right? Existence is so incomprehensibly…

 

 …and…

 

 Please continue to hold.

[“

” by 

]

 Hello! This is Lacy with the Department of Water. Are you still on the line?

 Hello?

: Thank you for contacting the Department of Water. I’m sorry about the interruption of your service.

 What is…what is happening?

 An intense period of multiple suns this afternoon affected our communication system. In he aftermath, it looks like our computers shut off your water and started releasing carbon monoxide into your pipes. That should only happen to customers who are more than 60 days behind on payments, and your account appears to be fully paid, so…we apologize for the error! Your water has been turned back on. Please open all windows to allow the punitive gases to dissipate.

 Why does it smell like French toast?

 I bet you’re wondering why our carbon monoxide smells like French toast.

 Yeah!

 It’s because French toast is pleasant, and carbon monoxide is not. We, here at the Department of Water, think, “Why not make unenjoyable things just a bit more enjoyable!”

 Well, that’s very thoughtful!

 It 

 very thoughtful! 

 very thoughtful! Is there anything else I can help you with today?

 Mmm…no.

 Okay. Thank you. Then goodbye, Mr. Palmer.

 Oh, thank you!

 Actually, I’m sorry, but I just have to say something. It’s kind of unprofessional, I know, but I just wanted to say that I know who you are, and thank you.

 Aww, well, thank you! I love hearing from fans, and I’m glad you like the radio show. Keep listening!

 

 No! Not because you’re on the radio! You’re not the only one who cares about her, you know.

 I'm– I’m sorry, her? I– I don’t know who you’re talking about.

 Fine, don’t take a compliment! Not everyone’s as thoughtful as me. Bye!

 OK, uh, goodbye.

Listeners, I have brought you a sub-par show today. I failed to report on the multiple suns that cluttered our sky, and sent waves of destructive panic throughout our community because I was too consumed with my own personal issues. I apologize for this.

And, for what it’s worth, some vigilantes with hunting rifles shot the extra suns down so we’re back to having just one sun! Although, the one remaining sun is currently setting in the north. So…we’ll see how that goes.

Our town is no longer consumed by weak and terrified humans rioting in the streets. Our town has returned to its normal state of weak and terrified humans huddling quietly at home.

I’ve been so preoccupied – with not just the water outage, but also getting vacation time so I can see Carlos again – that I haven’t been 100% focused on my duties as your community radio host. For this, I am sorry. I will try harder, I will report better! I will be the radio host you have counted on for…um, well, for however long it’s been. Oh…how long 

 it been?

 Time, right?

 Oh, you’re still on the line!

 Yup! Thanks again.

 Thanks for 

 Ugh! Never mind, jerk!

 Stay tuned next for time moving faster, faster than it seems, faster and faster, until it disintegrates into stardust.

 Oh! That actually sounds fun!

 Goodnight, Lacy.

And goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

 Goodnight!

Episode 61 - BRINY DEPTHS


There’s nothing
under your bed. Nothing in your closet. Nothing waiting in the hall.
You are surrounded by nothing. You cannot escape it.

Welcome to Night
Vale.

I have received
several urgent Facebook messages and Twitter DMs from a Vague, Yet
Menacing, Government Agency, asking me to deliver the following
message:

They said that there
was nothing secret or important about the message, and it was
certainly not related to any ongoing deep undercover operations, that
they can only communicate with using code words subtly buried in
local radio broadcasts.

“It wasn’t
anything crazy like that,” they just think it would be “cool”
to hear me say:

“Do your deepest,
smoothest voice,” they said. “Really sell it. Really give it your
all. It would make us 


happy! Please, it’s our birthday! Oh! Did we not mention it’s 


our birthday? All right, in your best voice, say it.”

Well,
there you go, Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency! Happy birthday!

The
Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home, and Hiram
McDaniels, who is literally a five-headed dragon – both former
candidates for the mayoral role now filled by Dana Cardinal – were
seen muttering together in a booth at the Moonlite All-Nite Diner.

Or, Hiram was seen. No one has ever actually seen the Faceless Old
Woman, but we 


know that she is there.

When
reached for comment, by a nosy person sitting in the booth next to
them, Hiram explained that they were just chatting, and were not
involved in any sort of plans or schemes at all. He then held a
conversation with himself about this matter, each head providing a
different viewpoint in five different voices, the gist of which was
that no, they were not planning anything.

“Definitely
not,” the Faceless Old Woman scratched with what seemed to be a
long, jagged fingernail into the sole of my shoe this morning.
“That’s ludicrous,” she suggested, with a flickering shadow in
the corner of my eye as I walked to work. “We would 

,”
she whispered from behind me, just now.

Moving
on, another installment of what I imagine is our listeners’ favorite
segment: Cooking Stuff with Earl Harlan.

As
the name implies, we have my childhood friend and current sous chef
at Night Vale’s hottest restaurant, Tourniquet, with us here in the
studio. Earl?


That’s me, yes.


Well, Earl, just a few months ago you shows us how to cook tiramisu.
And that was delightful.


Oh, please don’t cook that recipe. It is extraordinarily poisonous.


Ha-ha-ha! Oh, Earl. You’re very funny.


It will 

 you,
Cecil. It is 


poisonous. Don’t cook that.


So, tell our listeners (and me, of course) what you’ve been up to
since we last spoke.


Oh, mostly, um, I’ve been working. Mostly living. I’ve been spending
time with my son. Trying to remember when I had a son. I’ve been
trying to understand the flow of my life, and how I don’t remember
going from being 19 to the middle-aged adult I am now. I was 19 for


!


Well, sure! That sounds like fun. I’ll tell you, lately I’ve been
getting into crosswords. Just can’t stop doing them. Doesn’t even
feel like it’s 

 doing them, like it’s someone else 


me to do them. Sometimes I pick up a crossword I’ve never seen
before, only to find it’s been completely filled in with my own
handwriting.

Ha
– well, I’m glad we’ve both been up to such fun things.


Cecil, think. What year were you born?


So, what are we cooking up today, Earl?


Oh, OK. Well, today we are making pulled pork.


Oooh, that sounds yummy!


It is! Pulled pork could not be simpler to make. To start off with,
you will need to kill a pig. You will need to find a living pig, and
kill that pig. You will probably need to hold down the pig. The pig
will struggle. There will be blood, and pain. Some of that pain will
be physical. The pig will want to live, but you will need to make it
die. That pig will need to die.


Sure.


Then, you will need to dismember the pig. The pig will be a whole
being, but you will not be able to eat it like that. So you will need
to take it apart. There will be knives, and hacking. The skin will
have to go. Peel back that skin and take the muscles and subcutaneous
fat which is the part you will consume. Leave the bones and skin
behind to rot.


Mmmmmmmm!


Then…you slow-cook it with some vinegar, some sugar, and some chili.
Put it on a bun, and there ya go! Pulled pork!


Oh, I just can’t wait to try that. It seems so easy! I’ll just use
one of the pigs I have at home.


I’m sorry if I seem down at all, Cecil. I’ve been going through a
lot.


Oh. Well, I understand. This has been a difficult time for me too.
Carlos is away, and…we talk regularly, but it’s not the same as the
physical presence of someone you love, you know?


I know. I know. But that’s what we do when we have someone special
enough to merit special effort. I’m proud of you for working through
this.


And I’m proud of you for dealing with how weird time is. Oh! And for
raising a son…somehow. Uh, what is your son’s name?


I…… I wish I knew.


Well…it’s been great catching up, we’ll see you again soon, Earl!

I
received another flurry of messages from a Vague, Yet Menacing,
Government Agency, saying that…well, “thanks for saying those
words for us, that was great of you, but it looks like maybe it
didn’t work.”

“What
didn’t work?” they rhetorically asked. “Not important,” they
replied to themselves.

“As
we said, that was certainly 


a code word for an undercover agent, who apparently wasn’t listening
to the radio when they were supposed to be, which is (by the way)
their 

 job, and
their duty, and their life’s mission to be listening to instructions
from headquarters, so…no biggie. But maybe, just do something as
simple as listen to the radio at the time we tell you to.”

“Anyway,
none of that is important,” the Agency continued, “and there is
no particular reason we’re asking you, but…could you say “BRINY
DEPTHS” again? It’s for a friend’s birthday. It’s also our friend’s
birthday, we forgot to mention that. Please say it again.”

So…OK.
Here goes.

Happy
birthday to your friend! I hope you enjoyed that, but…I really
can’t keep interrupting my broadcast with this stuff.

Little
League coach Betty Lucero is reporting that there are strange
goings-on near the haunted baseball diamond her team uses for
practices and league games. “No, no no, no, I 

,
it’s haunted,” she said. “I get 

.
You don’t have to explain 


to me. I’m saying that there is 


weird stuff going on beside the usual ghosts.”

She
went on to describe anguished howls coming from a neighborhood
nearby, and a red glow at night that made her skin feel loose and
itchy when she looked directly at it. She also said that the baseball
diamond has started to smell of rotten eggs, which is a detriment to
her team’s performance.

As
we spoke, an apparition of a gray-skinned young woman in a tattered
dress appeared hovering on the baseline between second and third. I



have yelped a little…maybe scrambled backwards a bit, but Coach
Lucero laughed and said, “Oh, that’s just Lucia, our third base
coach. She died in 1843. Say hi, Lucia!”

The
young woman flickered out of view, then reappeared suddenly inches
from my face, her pupil-less eyes staring directly into mine. I
responded in a professional and calm manner, and Coach Lucero laughed
for unrelated reasons, not anything to do with how I may have
reacted, and said, “That’s our Lucia!”

She
then went on to say that she had a bad feeling about the weird
goings-on near the baseball field, and she probably said some other
things, but I was running away, so I didn’t hear her super well.

Oh,
listeners! This is exciting. I received mail today! I didn’t think
mail was still being delivered – not after what happened at the
Post Office – but here it is! An envelope addressed to one Cecil
Palmer in neat handwriting, with the address of the station right
underneath. If 


want to send us any mail, since apparently that is a thing which
exists and is working now, our address is

Night
Vale, 


Please
do send stuff in. It’s always nice to hear from fans.

But,
back to this envelope. Maybe this is silly, but I waited to open it
until I was on the air. It seemed more fun if we could find out
together what was inside. I’m, um, I’m opening it now…

And
here we go. It’s…oh.

Huh.

It’s
a greeting card! It says, “Thanks so much” on the front, and it
has a picture of a cat playing with a ball of yarn, well that’s just
the cutest! Although, I can’t imagine why someone sent me this card.
I’m…I’m opening it…

Oh!
Oh… oh. A photo fell out. Oh…dang it! It fell behind the desk.
Um, the inside of the card just has the words “Thank you for what
you did” printed, and then it’s signed “Erika,” over and over
in multiple handwritings. Huh. Let me…let me try to grab that
photo.

Ummmmm,
I’m going to have to crawl under the desk. While I do that, here’s a
word from our sponsors.

Today’s’
broadcast is sponsored by Kobe beef.

All
right, listeners, I got the photo. And it’s…it’s a photo of…

,
at City Hall…I’m fighting off a pack of antiques in front of the
mayor’s door, but…that wasn’t me! Intern Hector did that, last
month. He came back with that bite? I don’t remember ever leaving my
desk when the antiques attacked our mayor. What…what is this photo?
It must be fake.

It
doesn’t 


fake.

No.
It must be fake. Right? Why would I not remember saving the mayor?

More
on this later, as I face my fragile self and try to understand my own
reality.

OK,
now. This is getting out of hand. The Vague, Yet Menacing, Government
Agency sent me a Snapchat and several anonymous asks on Tumblr,
saying that they were happy about me doing that whole “broadcasting
their secret codeword” thing before, but that the message didn’t
seem to be getting through.

Or,
it’s not a 

,
that was poor phrasing on their part, sorry, they’re just flustered
talking to their favorite radio host.

Awwww!

They


 to say that they haven’t had the best birthday ever yet. And
neither has their friend. Plus, they forgot to mention, millions and
millions of people have the same birthday as them, think of how many
people have their birthday today and 

,
the Agency is sure, “just want 


to say that 


thing again. Just once more, in your smoothest, deepest voice.”

They
say that they’ve made it so our station is currently broadcasting on
every single radio frequency, so no one could possibly miss these
special birthday greetings, and it will 


be the “best birthday ever.”

This
is the last time. OK? I’m doing it just once more, here I go. And
really try to enjoy this, because I am 


doing it again.

Oh.

Whats’
going on? There’s shouting coming from the break room it’s, uh…it
sounds like a scuffle, and…

There’s
also shouting coming from outside. Uhh, a lot of shouting.

A
roar of voices, the stomping feet of a crowd.

These
birthday greetings were apparently very special. I need to go see
what this commotion is about.

I’ll
be back soon. In the meantime, those with birthdays and those who
were never born, I take you to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Whoo!
I’ll tell you! That was quite a scene.

I



tell you, right now.

It
seems that “BRINY DEPTHS” was, in fact, a code word (wish they
had warned me about that) for an undercover agent in the field.
Unfortunately, it seems that it was the code world for 


secret agent in the field, the signal for 


to do every nefarious action that they had been planted years ago to
perform. All over town, people we thought of as friends and family
revealed themselves to be carefully planted agents.

Adam
Bayer, weekday shift manager at the Ralph’s, grabbed a discount soup
display and carried it to an unmarked van that had been sitting in
the parking lot as long as anyone could remember, and then drove
wildly away.

Hundreds
of bushes and trees leapt into action, revealing themselves to be
suit-and-sunglass wearing agents in disguise, using clever costumes
that fooled all of us for years – such as holding a hand-written sign
that says “I am a tree.”

Larry
Leroy, out on the edge of town, lit his refrigerator on fire, but he
said that wasn’t because of any secret agent stuff, he just wanted to
do that. Someone had suggested it to him once, although he could not
remember who.

In
fact, it seems that every single person in Night Vale was actually a
secret agent waiting to be activated. We had all been implanted with
the exact same code phrase, which is the kind of sloppy organization
that is just what our government is coming to.

Or…whatever.

And
such.

You
know, look. Honestly, my heart isn’t in this reporting. Blah, blah,
everyone we’ve ever known is secretly an agent. But…here I am,
listeners, secretly a hero. Secret even from myself! It was not
Hector who saved Dana, but me. Me, acting without memory or agency.
What…what is happening to me? How do I not remember something so
huge?

I…I
need to talk to Carlos. Perhaps science can help me. Science so
rarely applies to the real world, but once in a while it provides a
nice metaphor or turn of phrase that makes you think about real
things differently. I’m…I’m hoping Carlos can do that for me.

Now
that everyone has been activated as a secret agent, and did the one
thing they were secretly supposed to do for years, everyone has just
gone right back to doing what they had been doing before. Everything
is back to normal, except that we all know we are all secretly
undercover planted agents here to spy on each other and since we all
know it, we are no longer secret agents. We are just ourselves,
secretly.

Listen,
I know it’s confusing. But I didn’t invent logic. Our
extraterrestrial ancestors did.

Stay
tuned next for all the air being sucked out of the room you’re in,
we’re sorry, we’re so sorry, but this is the only way.

Goodnight,
Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 62 - Hatchets


Dare
to dream. Do it. We dare you. Go ahead, dream.

It’ll
be 

. We promise.

Welcome
to Night Vale.

Leann
Hart, publishing editor of the Night Vale Daily Journal, announced
today that, for a limited time, the Daily Journal will print actual
newspapers again. No longer will subscribers have only the
Imagination Edition of the daily paper, a compulsory and automatic
$60 monthly charge to imagine whatever news you want. They will, once
again, have the tyranny of a printed daily edition – where all of
the stories are immovable declarations of recent history, told by a
biased and underpaid third party.

“It’s
an exciting time to work in print journalism!” Hart shouted after a
news blogger who was sprinting away from the hatchet-wielding veteran
of the printed word.

Hart
then hurled another hatchet at the terrified representative of the
Daily Journal’s digital competition. She hit her target just behind
the knee, felling him as he made a sharp cry and a dull asphalt thud.

“Very
exciting,” Hart shouted. She added, “These printed versions of
the daily paper are collector’s items. We’ve deliberately inserted a
bunch of errors into them because, true collectors know, that makes
them worth a bunch more.”

Listeners,
I for one think a resurgence in the newspaper industry would be
great. This could mean even more jobs here in Night Vale.

“This
will create lots of new jobs for Night Vale,” Hart will certainly have said by this time tomorrow. “Lots of real 


jobs,” I am sure she will have reiterated.

And
now, a look at traffic.

There’s
an accident at the corner of Hollows Road and Great Hills Drive. It’s
a pretty bad accident. It is likely neither party saw an accident of
this magnitude coming. Each driver stands, staring, dumbfounded at
their two twisted cars, which look like one. One…what? Not a car. A
spiteful burning beast borne of mundane haste and arrogant industrial
progress.

The
two drivers cannot comprehend what to do. They are still, mostly.
Fidgeting, sometimes. Thinking, not at all.

A
neighbor who came out of her house upon hearing the hard smash of
hard metal can’t seem to process what is happening, either. She’s
slowly leaning away as if wanting to leave, wanting to forget she
ever witnessed this, but she cannot move. She cannot take that first
step. Her eyes, growing wide, wild, as her mouth opens, slack at
first, and then slowly recoils into an unheard scream.

The
two drivers feel the neighbor there, but they do not turn. They do
not ask for help, or aid. Too scared to move, they stand and gaze
into the crumpled slits along the sides of the pressed cars, that
damnable block of hot machinery and its black smoke swirls.

And
on the concrete, there is glass. And above the glass are arms, and
hair, and drying blood. And the drivers stare at their own wretched
bodies inside the mangled contraptions, and they do not think about
anything other than what they once were. They watch their bodies,
hoping for a twitch, a breath, any kind of movement. Hoping for
another chance in life.

So,
it’s backed up pretty bad near the Best Buy. Choose some alternate
routes today.

This
has been traffic.

You
know me, listeners. I’m a pretty straight and narrow radio
professional. I am all about objectivity and impartiality. But it’s
time for a Cecil Palmer Editorial.

Given
the growing prevalence of the internet – not just on computers, but
also phones and watches and owls and certain trees – our private
information is just out there, waiting to be taken and exploited by
the wrong kinds of people. Of course, it’s vitally important that
Vague, Yet Menacing Government Agencies have access to our personal
data – like income, dream journals, phone logs, embarrassing
thoughts, and slash fiction archives. Ooh, also, the police and the
world government. Oh, and the mayor, 


the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in All of Our Homes. Yes,
those people should 


have access to our private data.

But
now, there are things called “scripts” and “algorithms” that
can just scan our emails and our purchase history and all those
photos of cats wearing baseball mitts we like to share with each
other, and these scripts and algorithms are sometimes called “bots.”

These
bots are large cyborgs that break into our homes and look through our
stuff, and then feed these secrets to corporations and 

,
these corporations make more bots, and soon, we will have to fight
bot armies. But with what? Knives and guns are completely
internet-based now. They will turn against us in that war. We are not
safe from the impending bot wars.

So,
stop having personal data is what I’m trying to say. No more emails,
no more job histories, Night Vale, no more cat pictures, or erotic
fan fic, or text messages.

I
know, 

 this is
difficult. On the one hand, we enjoy having personal information like
careers and friends and hobbies. On the other hand, we’re talking
about 

.
And on the third eleven-fingered hand, nothing is to say that bots
wouldn’t be benevolent leaders, but I do not wish to find this out.

I’m
sure the naysayers will tell me that I’m overreacting – which I am,
but…it’s my opinion, OK? 


don’t get to tell me whose overreacting. You’re underreacting, I’ll
say! Yeah, I’ll totally say that. I’ll say it right to their face,
that– 


What?
What’s that?

Oh.
Oh, OK.

Uh,
listeners? Intern Maureen just handed me a note explaining that the
City Council has just declared all information totally public. And
that since no information is private anymore, the giant corporations
and their bots cannot harm us by mining private data. The city will
keep all our information safely out in the open, and available to
anyone wearing sunglasses and a sidearm.

Hey,
thanks Maureen!

Moments
ago, the Sheriff’s Secret Police held a secret press conference
reminding us that all murder is illegal. Also, attempted murder.

“Like,
let’s say you try to kill a person, but you don’t 


succeed,” a Secret Police spokesperson whispered from behind a
concrete pillar in the underground garage of the disused East Night
Vale Mall. “Then, that’s 


illegal, even if you didn’t kill that person.”

“But,
what if you just 


about killing a person but don’t actually do it?” came one question
from the batch of reporters, who were also whispering and hiding.

“Well,
that’s not illegal, then” the spokesperson whispered in reply.

“But,
I have it all planned out and everything!” the reporter continued.
“I just haven’t done it yet. Is that illegal?”

“Well,
that’s just mean, and kind of weird,” said the Secret Police
spokesperson before walking out into the open and saying, “Leann,
is that you?”

“Umm,
no! No. 

”
came a comically deep voice that was obviously fake. “

”

“Leann,
we know it’s you,” said the spokesperson. “Stop attacking
bloggers with hatchets! We found a dozen more wounded bloggers in
Mission Grove Park this morning! They all had hatchets in their
backs, and were very upset. It’s not nice, Leann! It’s also illegal,
OK?”

“

” Hart
replied, still whispering and hiding.

And
now, a word from our sponsor.

You
are thirsty. Of course you are. We are all metaphorically thirsty for
better things, but you are 


thirsty. Literally thirsty for anything. You could feel your dry
lips, swollen and sticking together, their crusted gray edges
adorning the pink pain beneath. You lick your lips, felling better
for a moment, but actually worsening the problem.

It’s
hot, right? Pretty hot and dry, actually.

Are
those flies? Yes. Those are flies.

Are
those birds…vultures? Yes. Actual vultures in your home.

“How
did these soaring scavengers get in my home?” you think.

Perhaps
you could use some cool, pure, natural and refreshing Fiji Water.
Yes, Fiji Water sounds 

,
doesn’t it?

But
Fiji Water is not who is sponsoring this show. Fiji Water doesn’t
even 

 about this
show. Who is sponsoring this show? We cannot tell you. We’re not
allowed.

Fiji
Water is completely unaware of you, too.

So
sorry, this will not end quickly. So very, very sorry.

This
has been a word from our sponsor.

This
afternoon, Night Vale High School and the armed militia that make up
our Committee for Civic Pride are holding a ticker tape parade for
local sports hero Michael Sandero, who became the first Night Vale
High athlete to play in a college football national title game.

Unfortunately,
Sandero’s team, the University of Michigan Wolverines 

,
lost to copies of themselves in the title game. But Sandero did win
the Heisman Trophy for the nation’s best college football player, and
did his hometown proud.

Intern
Maureen, who I sent to report on the parade…oh…is texting me that
there’s a problem. Um, I’m getting word that Leann Hart has
interrupted the festivities with an announcement.

Oh,
wow. According to Maureen’s flurry of texts, Hart is claiming that
Michigan did 

 play
itself for the title. As proof of her claim, Hart passed out copies
of a news article from the Michigan Daily from January 13, stating
that at the end of the season, Michigan 


more games than they won, and that their quarterback’s name is Devin
Gardner? Not Michael Sandero.

On
the front page of that issue of the Daily is a headline strongly
indicating that people at the University of Michigan can remember
most things correctly. 

,
the headline reads.

She
also claims that a school called Ohio State 


won the national title over a school called Oregon 

.

Maureen
confirmed that while Ohio is, in fact, a U.S. state, Michigan and
Oregon are neither states nor cities anyone seems to have heard of
before. We’re still trying to figure out their languages of origin.

Maureen
is texting me that Hart is now shouting “Blogger!” over and over.
Maureen is texting me that Hart is hurling hatchets now, Maureen is
texting me that everyone looks pretty scared, Maureen just texted me,
“I’m hit.”

Um,
let– let me…let me respond really quick.

Is…that…slang…or
something…Maureen?

OK,
she texted back, “I’m hit, she got me, I’m bleeding.”

Um,
uh…

I…I
don’t understand young people and their weird text-speak at all. Who
even knows what she’s trying to say? Well, whatever.

While
I text Maureen back with a quick grammar lesson, let me take you to
the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Listeners,
I have just learned that Maureen was struck with a hatchet thrown by
Leann Hart.

So,
then:

To
the family of Intern Maureen, she was a good intern. A 


intern. Brave, right up until the end. Sadly, she is with us no more.
She will be missed.

For
the hatchet attack on Maureen, as well as several other attacks at
today’s parade, and more than five dozen similar hatchet-based
assaults in the past several weeks, the Sheriff’s Secret Police
arrested Leann Hart.

“We
told you it was illegal to kill people, Leann!” the Sheriff himself
said from his hover-office in the clouds. “And also, to try to kill
people.”

“But
they were 

!”
Hart replied. “I can’t stay in business and create jobs if news
bloggers are putting me out of business and destroying those jobs!”

And
the Sheriff agreed, saying it’s the Secret Police’s job to protect
business interests, as well as citizen interests. The City Council
also agreed. So did the Vague, Yet Menacing Government Agency,
nodding quietly from inside their long, black sedans with tinted
windows, while snapping photos of everything they saw.

The
mayor did 

 agree.
Mayor Dana Cardinal went against the City Council and said that she,
for one, did not think people or businesses should be allowed to use
physical violence against their competition or 

,
for that matter.

The
City Council bristled, and then they all squawked and few away.

It
is unclear whether or not news bloggers agree, as many of them have
gone silent on this issue, replacing their investigative reports and
think pieces with pictures of cats wearing baseball gloves and
top-rated recipes for invisible pie.

The
Sheriff then announced that all charges against Hart would be
dropped, 

 for
the assault on Intern Maureen.

“Maureen,
after all, was 

 a
news blogger, but a radio intern who posed no direct threat to Hart’s
newspaper,” the Sheriff said.

And
I agreed.

The
Sheriff then played the entirety of Domenico Galli’s 

 on his gold cello.

“But…but
she 

 like a
blogger,” Hart insisted. “She was typing into her phone. All
those bloggers do that! Bloggers 


typing on their phones.”

“But
she worked in radio, Leann,” the Sheriff said, as he ended a series
of lilting high notes with a single discordant bass tone. He closed
his eyes and shook his head. “I’m sorry, but that is attempted
murder. You have to go to jail now.”

“Oh!
But I didn’t attempt to 


her! You said murder and attempted murder were illegal. Murder wasn’t
my intent!” Leann said.

“Then
what 

 your intent?”
the Sheriff asked.

“Oh,
just…throwing a hatchet at her.. Nothing more, nothing less,”
Hart said. “I meant nothing by it,” she added, brushing her hands
together, and then holding them out, empty and clean. Her open palms
signified “case closed.” And the Sheriff, held to the higher law
of gestures, had no choice but to acquiesce.

So
Hart was set free, turned back into the world to print more news, to
keep the industry alive.

Before
she left, she paused and said, “I think something’s wrong in
Michigan” 

–
and, listeners, that’s how she said it. I don’t know why, it’s very
clear how it’s actually pronounced if you see it written out – and
she held up her copy of the Michigan Daily from January 13 with an
article that said, “

.”
And the front page of the Michigan Daily now showed a bold headline,
“

,” and in
several blank columns with no story, merely pictures of normal things
like shoes and birds and ghosts, all captioned with a series of
frantic question marks.

“I
guess I was wrong earlier. I don’t know. 

,
right?” Hart said with a shrug.

“That
is crazy weird,” the Sheriff agreed, finishing out the sonata
before disappearing in a soft breeze.

“

”
said a nearby news blogger who was coughing up blood and clutching
tightly to the hatchet lodged in her abdomen. “

” the blogger
said through gritted teeth.

Leann
tightened her grip on the hatchet in her left hand, raising it
slightly. There was a tense pause that was eventually broken by a
light smirk from Leann Hart. Then, the two of them laughed and
laughed. They are both still laughing now.

Because
of the hatchet attack she survived today, Intern Maureen has resigned
from radio – as I clearly,  and without any other 


interpretation, explained earlier.

Oh,
she wasn’t hurt that badly, but Maureen went on and on about radio
being a “dangerous job” and “totally not worth the constant
risk of death.” I told her she makes it harder than it needs to be.
She rolled her eyes, and packed up her desk.

I
miss her already. She had a good sense of humor.

Stay
tuned next for something clawing at your window. It will also be
sniffing. Sniffing and clawing at your window. Occasionally, it will
wail. Occasionally, you will hear nothing. So, to recap: sniffing and
clawing at your window over and over, with the occasional piercing
wail, and then long silences. All that, next.

And
as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 63 - There Is No Part 1




Episode 65 - Voicemail


 You have
reached the voicemail of Cecil Gershwin Palmer. That might seem like
an easy thing to do, but think about how long you had to stay alive
just to learn how a phone works and who I am. Congratulate yourself
on that. Give yourself a vigorous pat on the back, and…don’t forget
to leave a message after the heavily distorted sample of a man saying
“I just couldn’t eat another bite.”

I̱̺̭͕̜
̥̐͂͆̋j̰̥͔̔̒ͬ̐͆͊ͮǘ͓̺̳̰̑ͅs͕̝͎̼̞̏t͚̋
̟̥͂ͧ̑c̓ͬ́͐̌̀o͇͖ͩ̋̄̊̽ͬu͈̲͉͍̩ͦ̎l̩̜͊̽̉͛̅ͥd̙̝͌͑̐͗͆n̬'̟̹̦͖̒͗͐͛t̰̠̙͖̱̹̰͌ͨ͆ͬ
̤̭̲̭̪͇ͪ̄ͯ́ͯ͊̍ͅê͕͈̣ͩ͆̂ͩa̯̠͍̮̾t͉͈̊
̟̯͂͐͊̌̌̍ͅa̺̮̻̮̱͚̩͛n̟̝͇͎̥̂ͫ̏̈́o̺̰͇͔̹͓̩͊̍ṫ͇̠̭̻ͦh͉̹̼͙̯̊͒̂͛e͖̗͉̦͗̄ͩr̖̺͍̩͆̈́̓̈́
̫͈̟̗̞ͤͣͧͅb̰ͮͤ͗͊ͬͧi̠̺̙̍t͚͙̆ẽ̜͈̞͐̌.̮ͧ̍̏ͯ̋͒


 Hey, sweetie, it’s
Carlos. I know you’re probably busy talking, or not talking. It seems
like you’re always talking, or not talking, you know?

So,
I’ll try again in a bit, but I just wanted to let you know what’s up
here. What’s up? The sky!

OK,
OK, that is a funny joke, but it is also a scientifically accurate
one. I only tell scientifically accurate jokes. I don’t get how
people can find inaccurate jokes funny.

Like,
OK, so a horse walks into a bar, and says “I feel used. As a
species, even, I feel used.” And so then the bartender, who is also
a horse, ‘cause, you know, this is the Horse District where the
horses live when they’re not being used by the humans, and the horse
bartender says, “Don’t I know it, buddy!” and the first horse
says “I’m not your buddy!” And then he says, “Man, I’m sorry.
I’m so sorry. That was awful of me. It’s the anger.”

So,
that’s another example of a scientifically accurate joke.

Things
are going really well here. With the help of Doug and Alicia and the
other members of the masked army who live in this strange desert
other world, we’ve been starting to build out an infrastructure. Of
course, I had already set up a temporary lab, but now we’ve dug up
the stones that were used in the old settlements up on the mountain
and have been building important basics of life, like shelter and
roads and blood stone circles. It’s starting to look downright homey
around here…if you ignore the disquieting wasteland beyond. So it’s
just like the rest of the world, really.

There’s
lots of material to work with, because – get this – we’ve been
just finding stuff lately. Microwaves, toolboxes, old tennis balls.
They look like they’ve been here a while. I’m not sure how this stuff
ended up here, but I’m going to find out.

Ooh!
That reminds me. I’m thinking of getting a tattoo with the definition
of science straight out of Webster’s Dictionary. So it’ll say, quote,
“I don’t know, but I’m trying to find out, OK?” end quote, and
then it’ll have a skull and some roses. Ooh, maybe an anchor, to make
it look old-timey.

Hmm.

I’m
still working on how to get you here, but I will. How? I don’t know,
but I’m trying to find out, OK?

OK?

OK.

I
love you. Talk again soon.

[BEEP]


Hey, Cecil, it’s Michelle from Dark Owl Records calling. The
new…ugh…Woody Guthrie album is in for you? I can’t believe you’re
still listening to that stuff! He hasn’t been cool since his
electro-punk period. We’re all listening to archival recordings of
bees now.

Come
in for your stupid album and I’ll show you the bee sounds while
you’re here. And maybe you could hang out for a while, because I’m
lonely and I need more human contact. Ugh. Woody Guthrie?

[BEEP]


Hey, Cecil! I know you said that I wasn’t allowed to leave any
voicemails on your phone, and you marched around the room waving your
arms and saying, “No, Steve Carlsberg, no voicemails!” then you
tried to convince me that voicemails aren’t real, but you couldn’t,
because I know what is what around here.

I
know what is what.

But
anyways, I just wanted to make a quick call to see if Janice could
stay with you in a few months. Abby and I are looking at doing a nice
little vacation. You know, just the two of us. Somewhere romantic,
like the Warehouse District, or the Sand Wastes, or Arby’s. You of
all people know how romantic a long weekend at Arby’s can be!

Which
– listen. By the way, I meant it as just a nice gift when I printed
up all those T-shirts of you and Carlos there, looking up at the
lights. And you got all weird about it, but…I don’t mind. Sorry I
made you upset again.

Just
get back to me about the Janice thing, or answer me on your radio
show while ranting about me. Either way is fine.

Hope
everything’s going well with Carlos. Hope everything is just…going.
Hope everything goes. Hope it’s gone. We all do.

Okie
dokie!

[BEEP]


Cecil, Tamika Flynn here. I’m calling to let you know that me and the
rest of the missing children are having a book drive. We’re taking
books and herding them out on the long trail. Sleepless nights on our
horses, books clear from our feet out to a horizon gone dusty, with
the dreary stomp of spine and page upon Earth, the sad yelp of books
taken in the night by coyotes or librarians…I don’t know how long
we’ll be gone, but when my horse is neck deep in the Colorado, and
I’m watching the drowned carcass of some book that will never find a
reader again float away on that relentless current, I’ll think about
you.

Also,
it will probably be Thursday. We’ll be back Thursday. We’re not
taking the books that far. They can’t walk, and…they’re not even
sentient, so this will be a short one.

Oh!
Gotta go. 

 by Marisha Pessl is looking restless, and I’m worried it’ll
start a stampede!

[BEEP]


Hi, it’s me. Sure, I’d love to come back and do another segment of
“Cooking Stuff with Earl Harlan.” I have this great recipe for
pumpkin pie. There’s so much less blood splatter than you would
think!

Um,
but listen, I’m trying to schedule a little more time in my life for
my son. It’s hard for both of us, what with me having a full-time
kitchen job, plus going straight from being a childless teenager to a
middle-aged man with an eleven-year-old. I– I mean, they have
Sesame Street episodes about it that you can show your kid, but even
with PBS’s help, trying to explain how weird time is? It’s really
hard! Time is unimaginably weird.

Uh,
my son’s name is Roger. I finally asked him, and he told me. It was
that easy, and it wasn’t easy at all.

I
gotta get back to the kitchen. We have a lot of orders coming in,
plus it’s on fire. Cook with you soon, Cecil.

[BEEP]

♫ 

[BEEP]


Hey, sorry to call again so soon…I know we talked about space and
boundaries and all of that, especially with this whole Lot 37 thing
you’re going through…gotta have time to think. And Cec, I
understand a time to think, but I have made an important scientific
discovery, and you 


the rules are different when an important scientific discovery is
made. An important scientific discovery is grounds to interrupt
anything!

I
found people! Here, in this desert other world! We – me, and the
members of the masked army – saw human shapes coming towards us.
The masked army opted, as is their way, for something of a warlike
response, but I convinced them that it was important to discover the
facts before formulating a response – an idea to which Doug roared
in a fearsome voice, “

”

And here is, my
sweet Cecil, what was up. These people were citizens of Night Vale.
They had been lost from their home, as of today, for exactly two
years, and they have apparently been wandering the desert since!

They are a tad
traumatized by their years in a featureless wasteland accompanied
only by a distant rumble and a bright light that they felt primarily
in the roots of their teeth, and so they haven’t told me yet how they
got here, but I have them resting in the hot yoga studio we recently
built, so I hope to hear their story soon. And when I hear the story,
you will too. And then, you know, I’m sure everyone who listens to
your show will, you old blabbermouth! 


You know, it
would upset me if it weren’t just who you are. So much of each other
would be annoying if it weren’t also the essence of us. Hmm.

OK, more soon.

[BEEP]


Hello, Cecil. It’s Deb, the sentient patch of haze. I have some new
ad copy I wanted to run by you, and then I want to disregard any
petty human feelings you have about it, and then I want to run the ad
on the air. Here goes, okay?

So if you have
any issues or questions at all about that ad, don’t hesitate to not
tell me.

Hope you’re
having a great day. Okay, Cecil, buh-bye.

[BEEP]


Hello, Cecil. It’s the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your
Home. I’m in your closet, listening to moths eat one of your suits.
They make such a lovely crunch and tear.

I
just wanted to reach out in regards to you protecting your former
intern, Dana, against Hiram and I’s good work toward destroying her.
You’ve foiled us more than once. I won’t forget that, Cecil. I forget
nothing. Unlike you, your brain a dusty surface so easily blown
clean.

My
memory cakes on. It stains. It warps. My memory’s erosion. It is on
the very surface of the earth.

Do
you feel my fingernails on your back? No. You don’t. I could do so
many things to you without you feeling it. Remember that, if you
remember nothing else…which seems likely these days.

Tell
Carlos I said hi. I always liked him.

And
stay out of my way, or I will destroy you. Just as these moths I
caught outside and carried into your closet are destroying all of
your clothing.

[BEEP]


Cecil. I’m here with Erika and Erika, just checking to see if we can
get a ride to league night later. My car’s in the shop because I
stopped believing in it, so if you can fit us all in there, we’d
appreciate it.

Also,
I can’t use my left hand lately, so it might be a little tricky, but
we are still going to win. We’ll crush 'em, Cecil!

[BEEP]


Hi, Cecil! It’s may–…it’s Dana. I hope you’re doing OK. You seem
kind of…I mean, lately. Lately you’ve been…

Isn’t
it weird how we talked more when I was trapped in that distant desert
other world than now when we work a five-minute drive from each
other? It’s funny how life works.

That
word meant the opposite of its usual meaning. That’s funny too, I
guess.

I
know you think I bought Lot 37, but you’re wrong. I wasn’t in Night
Vale at the time. Yes, I projected myself into the auction that day,
but I only bought some collectible spoons and a Lee Marvin
autographed baseball of my brother. That’s all, though.

It’s
awful when you can see the reasoning for someone’s feeling towards
you while knowing wholly that they’re wrong.

I
wonder sometimes if my double could have done better, or if I am the
double, whether the original me would have done better. Did I destroy
my better half? Then maybe I was lucky that even half of me was
better, once upon a time.

Cecil,
I do my best with what I have. I don’t have much.

I
hope we’ll talk soon. Night Vale needs me as much as it needs you,
and when it comes down to it, I’ll stand for that before anything
else. It’s my job.

OK.

[BEEP]

[Electronic
static and feedback]

[BEEP]


Hey, OK, quick update, and then *poof* I’m gone again from your
voicemail.

I’ve
put some of the junk we found and some of the 


we found in my lab, and I’m studying them using microscopes and vials
of bubbling liquid and me making thoughtful expressions and saying
things like “Hmm.” So I’m really using all of the available
scientific tools right now.

Ooh,
I feel like I’m on the verge of something big here, something new!

I’ll
call you soon. [Gasp] This is so exciting!

[BEEP]


Well, howdy Cecil! Uh, Frank Chen here.


Yes, Frank Chen. With 100% certainty, that is who I am.


Right. Uh, so, uh, Frank Chen, normal human with one voice. No other
voices interrupting that main voice, making me sound anything less
than human.


What’s going on? Someone put the phone near my ears! I can’t hear!

Well,
there’s that busted.


Just normal Frank Chen, uh, playing a joke with funny voices, wantin’
to hear if the mayor told you any plans she might have. I’m curious
'cause, uh, I’m a citizen, and a voter.


This was a bad plan! I told you I didn’t want any more to do with
your foolish plans!


Purple! Green, Blue, Gray, come on, guys! We’re in this together!

[Exasperated
sigh]

Just…all
right. Frank Chen, average person of normal head amount, saying, uh,
goodbye. See ya around, Cecil.

[BEEP]


Hello, this is your 


update from the automated 


service. Here is the current 

.

[“

”
by 

]


Thank you for using our automated 


service. Have a 


day.

[BEEP]


Cecil! Cecil, I did it! I understand! I hooked everything up to
computers, and I said “hmm” a lot, and then I asked the people to
talk about how they ended up in the desert and it turned out that
they were all lured into the Dog Park during Poetry Week. And then
the gates closed on them, and they’ve been in this desert ever since.

And
I thought about this. I thought about how Dana came in here with them
on that same day, and about all of the stuff I found, which I think
is junk that people got rid of by throwing them over the walls of the
forbidden Dog Park.

And
I realized…this 


the Dog Park! This whole desert, the mountain, the light up on the
mountain, we’re in a vast, perhaps endless, and 


endlessly forbidden Dog Park!

Which
means you can visit now! You just have to walk through that Dog Park
gate, and then…you know, walk a few more hundred miles after that
to wherever we’re at in this huge desert, and then you’ll be able to
take that vacation here!

Uh,
call me as soon as you get this. Cecil! Oh, honey-voiced honey!
You’ll be able to visit!

Talk
soon. I love you.

[BEEP]


Hey, friend! We haven’t spoken in a while. Not since all
that…unpleasantness happened. I hope everything has been
super-pleasant since then.

Oh!
But hey! I’ve been working on something I’d like to show you. I think
you’ll be just jazzed about it! Get back to me A.S.A.P., OK?

Until
next time, Cecil. Until next time.

[BEEP]

Episode 66 - worms…


We all lie dreamily upon damp earth,
spotting clouds shaped like animals we have yet to invent.

Welcome to Night Vale.

If you woke up today, you’re probably
already well aware of the worms. It’s been about 12 years since the
last round of worm-based terror in this town, but…they’re back.
They’re doing all of the usual worm things: flying around and
dropping trees onto cars and houses, spitting venom at people, and
eating stray cats and then leaving large mewling pellets all about
town.

Thousands of worms have managed to
completely envelop the Rec Center Annex, which is where today’s
continuing education course, Counter-Terrorism Techniques for
Beginners, was taking place. Sadly, despite frequent pleas by many to
classify worm attacks as terrorism, worms remain classified as a
low-grade infestation – and thus were not covered in today’s
continuing education coursework. This means more giant squirming
pellets to clean up.

Um, yeah, yeah…worms…worms,
worms, worms…great.

Hey. Unrelated to anything, just
wondering, but…have you ever asked yourself why the Dog Park is off
limits? I mean, I know it’s a municipal park and all, but shouldn’t
citizens be able to 

?
Seems kind of weird, right? That you can’t just go to the Dog Park
and hang out. Maybe even…bring your dog? I don’t know. It’s not
like it contains any kind of vast desert otherworld where my
boyfriend lives, it’s…I’m 


it’s just a plain old Dog Park and not an alt-dimensional portal!

Maybe
our mayor will try to open up the Dog Park for public use.
Just…temporarily. Say, for a few minutes. Maybe our mayor can help


 out for once. That
would certainly be a friendly and mayoral thing to do.

After
years of applications for city approval, there is finally an official
Night Vale Book Club, listeners! The Book Club, which is run by 14
year-old bibliophile and heroic vigilante Tamika Flynn, will feature
weekly discussions of popular and classic fiction, as well as Q&As
with book experts about some of literature’s most famous
controversies., like last week’s heated argument about whether or not


 really wrote all of the novels which bear his name, or
just 

.

The
Book Club meets Tuesdays from 2:00pm to 4:00pm at Patty’s Hardware
and Discount Pastries. Members can candidly discuss the books without
fear of 


government repercussions, while noshing on some delicious wheat- and
wheat byproduct-free pastries sold at great discount to you.

Patty’s also
specializes in hammers, crowbars, and anything heavy that fits in
your hand and can be easily swung.

“Shop at
Patty’s. They’ll never suspect a thing!” Patty shouts in the looped
recording playing from her perpetually squirming animatronic statue
out front of her flagship store.

This
week’s book is Helen DeWitt’s 

. There is only one heavily-charred edition of this
novel left in the world, but Tamika assures us that she managed
to…

 a
copy from the library’s Forbidden Material Collection. She did finger
quotes around the word “borrow,” while also shaking her head no
and stomping “I am being totally facetious” in Morse code with
her right leg. Then, an owl landed on her shoulder and winked.

Spring
League baseball tryouts are next Saturday afternoon at the Haunted
Baseball Diamond. Children new to organized baseball will be assigned
teams automatically, based entirely on their personal dispositions.
That way there’s a whole team of courageous players, a whole team of
clever players, one of conniving selfish players, and one
that…takes all the rest of the players. Just like the four Major
League Baseball teams. Tryouts are from 10:00am to 2:00pm, with
volunteer coaches Betty Lucero and Lucia Tereschenko.

The Night Vale
Youth Baseball Association is asking parents to bring any extra
baseballs to tryouts, as coach Tereschenko died over 150 years ago,
and is now a ghost, and so has a hard time picking up ground balls
during batting drills.

Um,
getting an update on the worms…City Council has now elevated the
warning scale from “worms…” (with a lower-case w followed by an
ellipses) to “Worms!!” (with a capital W and two exclamation
points). It has not yet reached all-caps “WORMS!!!” but, if
something is not done, this could become a more destructive “Worms!!”
outbreak than the famous

with all caps, one exclamation point, and underlined-twice disaster
of 1997.

You know,
listeners, if the worms get near the Dog Park, um, perhaps the Hooded
Figures who pace about behind the tall black fences would get
distracted. And then I could…run in there, and get to the desert
otherw– ha…I– I…I could just go check out the dogs! Catching
tennis balls, and– and have a nice afternoon in a local park.

Or…actually,
no. No. I’d make a break for the desert otherworld inside the Dog
Park, and finally go visit Carlos.

Or…you know.
Something.

And now, a word
form our sponsors.

Too much clutter
in your home? Do you have excess furniture? Old clothes? A couple of
folding bikes you never ride anymore? Jazz CDs that you no longer
want because you finally realized how intellectually dangerous they
can be?

Perhaps you could
put that stuff online for sale!

There’s no reason
to let old junk go to waste. How does that saying go? “One person’s
trash is another person’s leather bodysuit?” It’s true! I bet that
couch of yours would look really good in, say, Denise Esposito’s
house. In fact, it’s there now. We went ahead and sold your couch to
Denise. She’s already come and picked it up while you were at work.

Also, we sold
your TV to Sally Jensen, and your fridge to Mario Landis, and both of
your cats to Pedro Renia. We sold all of your belongings, and you
didn’t have to do a thing!

Craigslist. We
sold your stuff while you were gone.

Due to today’s
worm attacks, the Sheriff’s Secret Police are putting their search on
hold for literal five-headed dragon Hiram McDaniels and the Faceless
Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home. After the attempted coup
at City Hall several weeks back, the Secret Police have been
aggressively pursuing the two fugitives, who have reportedly
conspired many times to overthrow Mayor Dana Cardinal.

Mayor Cardinal
has been imperiled several times in the last month, only to be saved
by someone controlling Night Vale Community Radio host Cecil
Palmer…who is still quite upset about being used against his will.

“If the mayor
had just asked for my help, I would have happily come to her aid on
my own,” a frustrated Palmer said, just now, into this very
microphone.

Palmer alleges
that Mayor Cardinal purchased him last year in an auction, and has
been using him as her personal protector. The mayor has denied these
charges – but, like the Night Vale Constitution says, denying that
you are guilty is a major sign of guilt.

The Secret Police
had previously wanted against approaching either Hiram or the
Faceless Old Woman, as they are both deadly. But, the Secret Police
have been so busy dealing with the worms today, that they just can’t
deal with everything on their own.

“Maybe you
could…help us out a bit, you think?” a Secret Police spokesperson
said, as worms gripped his legs tighter. “I– I'm– I’m sure
you’ll be fine. If you could find either the 18-foot tall,
five-headed dragon, or the omnipresent ethereal woman who you can’t
quite ever see, go ahead! Bring them down! Thanks for doing that. Big
help. Big help,” the spokesperson said as the worm consumed, with
one slimy gulp, the cutlass in his left hand.

The
Secret Police added they received a tip from Night Vale human Frank
Chen that he saw Hiram McDaniels flying far away, to some other
place. And so, Chen said, Hiram is definitely 


still in Night Vale.

“Hiram ain’t
comin’ ‘round here anymore. I’m sure of it!” Chen’s long Gold Head
stated.

“I will burn
your frail, useless corpse, human!” Chen’s scaly Green Head added.

“Stop
calling people humans! We 


human, remember?” Chen’s Blue Head said.

“Uh,
I mean, I 

 human,
OK?” Chen’s Gray Head said.

“Knock it off,
you guys!” Chen’s Purple Head grumbled, from behind the other
heads.

Speaking of the
Faceless Old Woman, she knows a lot about this town. I bet I could
ask her how to get into the Dog Park, how to get into that desert
otherworld. I should ask her, but I’m not sure I’ll be able to
find…


Ask me what?


Oh! Hah! Faceless Old Woman, you…you scared me.


I know. So, you want to go to the desert otherworld and visit your
boyfriend?


Well, I do…


You are upset that the mayor has been using you to protect her from
those wonderful threats to her life, and you’re frustrated by this
town. And you just want some time away to clear your head, and so you
don’t have to always be saving the mayor from whatever great forces
are trying to remove her from office.


Well, that’s…


And by “great,” I mean “really incredible.” Of course, who
even knows who’s been doing all this to the mayor? I mean, 


know. I know everything. But…all of these delightful rumors and
lies about me and Hiram…I mean, how can people even report such
rumors? Well, they’re not totally untrue, I suppose. And how on Earth
could I even get…


But, Faceless Old Woman, is


Yes. I’m sorry. I’m a bit distracted.


You know how to get into the Dog Park.


I do. And I want to help you, because…well, I want you to be happy,
Cecil. I will tell you how in a dream. You will be in a boat –
which will sink, of course – and you will lose all of your teeth.
And as you are trying to pick up your teeth, you will find an oil
painting of a Victrola. You will then place the needle on the record
and eat the entire painting. Your chest will open, and dozens of red
birds with gold ribbons in their talons will fly from you, and the
ribbons will lift your limp, open body, carrying you through the sea
and dropping you onto a frantic eddy of pink fish near a pink reef.
You must wake immediately when you see the shadow of a young woman
emerging from behind the coral. Do not look long at her.

When you awake,
you will hear her whisper.


And she will tell me how to get into the Dog Park?


I don’t know what she will tell you.


Well, Faceless Old Woman…


I have to go. I have to get back to keeping a distant eye on whatever
it is that Chad is doing in that cursed home of his.

You’ll be fine.
Night Vale will be fine. The mayor will be…

Take a nice, long
break, Cecil. You’ve earned it.


Faceless Old Woman? Hello?

She’s gone, I
think.

Listeners?
Oh, dear. I have made a 


mistake. I believe I have upset Station Management. I think my openly
talking about the Dog Park has proved to be far too political a topic
for this station’s old-fashioned values that believe in not
questioning local, world, or secret reptilian governments, nor their
parks.

I have grown
cavalier in my anxiousness to get out of town for a vacation, and
this lack of care in my job, perhaps, will lead to my end! I do not
like the color glowing around my studio door right now. I do not like
the predatorial sniffing around the door’s edge. I do not like that
hum, nor the heat of my skin, nor the cold in my heart.

I cannot face
them, listeners! I can not! I just want a vacation! I just want to
see Carlos, for a week! A day! A…

An envelope!

Oh, no! The noise
and the lights are gone! All that is left is a black envelope, upon
which is a single silver glyph, lightly afire. I…I do not recognize
the language, nor even the alphabet of this burning symbol. But I
know, in my mind, exactly what this says. I wish I did not know.

I must have
courage. I must open this frightful news. Before I do, let me say I
am sorry to Station Management, and to the city of Night Vale. I
have…betrayed your trust with my careless speech. If spared, I
promise to never speak ill nor question the Dog Park again, but…for
now, I will take myself to my punishment.

And I will take
you to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

So…guess
what? The envelope wasn’t about the Dog Park at all. I fell to my
knees, begging Station Management for forgiveness, but they silenced
me immediately. They were simply letting me know that my vacation had
finally been approved!

I was confused
for a moment. I asked about the burning glyph on the outside of the
envelope and what I thought it meant – which took some explaining,
as I didn’t know how to describe that particular horrifying
experience in English. And they laughed, and said, “No, that glyph
is just the ancient abbreviation for Human Resources. They’re who
approve the vacations around here.”

Then
they showed me the 


glyph that meant what I thought the 


one meant, and I lost consciousness. I’m not sure for how long.

When I woke, I
heard the whispered instructions from the woman in the coral!

And then I heard
laughter. Station Management was…laughing! And I laughed, too! And
then they stopped laughing, or…growling? Perhaps it was growling
they were doing. It’s very difficult to say what that noise is they
make.

Oh. Wow. Yeah, I
think it was growling.

Aw, now I’m super
embarrassed about laughing.

Anyway,
the worms. 

 The
worms have backed down, thanks to a flamethrower and fierce rhetoric
by the City Council, resulting in some sick burns…both
metaphorically and literally. The worms have left, sure to return for
us again someday as all of nature eventually will.

Friends,
listeners, all of Night Vale…I love you. Very much. But I need time
away to be with Carlos. Yes.

And, also, some
time to myself. To reflect. Also, I got a message from an
old…colleague? Acquaintance? Nemesis? who lives there as well.

You know, I don’t
want to talk about it just yet.

Night
Vale, we’ve had many great years together. And I won’t be gone long,
but…I’ve also grown…weary. Weary of some friends who are less
than friends. Weary of fights that need not be fought. Weary of not
being myself some of the time, which is something I strongly prefer
to be 

 of the time.
Weary, sometimes, of Night Vale itself, I think.

I’ll be back.
Whenever. Refreshed…you’ll know when! It’ll be when you hear my
voice again!

Stay tuned next
for…oh, I don’t know! Anyway, time for a vacation!

Goodnight, Night
Vale.

Goodnight!
Whoo-hoo!

Episode 68 - Faceless Old Women


Get the body
you’ve always wanted. We know where it’s buried, and can lend you a
shovel.

Welcome to Night
Vale.

Hello, listeners.
I’m back from vacation, and I’m feeling 

! I, of course,
miss being with Carlos in that desert otherworld, and miss having so
much time to relax with my boyfriend, but – as with any vacation –
it always feels good to come home.

We had such a
delightful time. Carlos and the masked army of nomadic giants that
inhabit that place have managed to build a little paradise there.
There’s now a roller coaster, and an ice cream parlor, and a beach
resort hotel and spa! Unfortunately, they don’t have operators for
the roller coaster, nor any milk for making ice cream, nor any water
along the beach resort. So, most of those things just sit empty.

Except for the
roller coaster, which is constantly running, and filled with the same
people who got on it over two months ago, unable to stop because no
one knew how to build a brake system. There were terrified screams
Dopplering up and down the otherwise quiet nights. Those people are
just having the time of the rest of their lives!

More on my trip
later, but first, some breaking news.

The Sheriff’s
Secret Police just announced that they have captured the Faceless Old
Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home. The Faceless Old Woman is one
of two fugitives the Secret Police have been tracking for the past
few months. She, and literal five-headed dragon Hiram McDaniels, are
wanted in connection with a series of attacks on mayor Dana Cardinal
at City Hall.

A Secret Police
spokesdeer made today’s big announcement by writing it in dirt with
its hoof. The announcement began a couple of hours ago, but we’re
just now getting to the good stuff. And reporters have grown
impatient with the spokesdeer, who can only scratch one or two words
at a time, and then has to erase them before continuing with the next
words.

The
press conference turned ugly, as a couple of reporters shouted “Speak
English!” at the deer. But then, a couple more shouted,
“

”
and the spokesdeer, looking relieved, began speaking in fluent
Russian – which flummoxed those reporters who only spoke English,
despite their adamant demands that others develop a mastery of
multiple languages.

But the big news
is that they captured a dangerous fugitive, which is so shocking
because, to my knowledge, no one has ever 

 the Faceless
Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home – because she lives there
secretly. Of course, without a face, I imagine it would be
simultaneously easy and difficult to identify her.

More on this
story as it develops.

OK. So. Back to
our vacation.

Carlos showed me
the apartment he built using his scientific knowledge of physical
materials and spatial relations. It was a cute little one-bedroom on
the side of a low craggy mountain.

Yeah, I know, I
could hardly believe it! A 

, right?

We took turns
making each other breakfast whenever we thought it was morning.
Carlos cooks a delicious vegan omelette using thick fillets of ginger
root for the eggs, and filling it with dried cranberries and capers.

I’m not a 


cook, but I make excellent coffee. I generally don’t let Carlos make
the coffee because I have a specific way I like to make it using a
coffee hammer and angry chanting. I like my coffee like I like my
nights: dark, endless, and impossible to sleep through.

After a week’s
stay-cation in Carlos’ apartment, we went with the giant masked
warrior Alisha on several hiking trails around the desert canyons.
Carlos and Alisha showed me the brilliant array of flora that grows
in that desert otherworld. While the desert around Night Vale is
mostly red and brown dust, with a smattering of white and brown
rocks, topped with gray and brown brush, the canyons of the desert
otherworld are flush with rich brush of charcoal and tan, rocks the
color of snow and leather, and dust that was striped in shades of
sunset and mahogany.

And there were
mysterious lights in the sky. Just like here in Night Vale. We could
not understand the lights, but we understood our lack of
understanding. Which is all most understanding is.

Some mornings,
Alisha and Doug and the other giant masked warriors would see other
masked armies, and they would head off to war, gone for days at a
time, only to return bloodied – and fewer in number. Carlos and I
didn’t mind, because it gave us more time to ourselves.

Oh! More about
our vacation later, but there’s some news, or something.

An update on
today’s arrest of the Faceless Old Woman:

Several residents
across Night Vale are reporting vandalism inside their homes. Old
Town residents Christopher Brady and Stewart Robinson report their
living room walls were covered in writing that reads, “You talked!
I see you, and I cannot hate you, but I cannot forgive you.” The
text seems to have been written with hand-smeared mayonnaise.

Also, all of the
toes were cut out of their dress socks.

Said Robinson of
the damage, “I think it’s because I reported to the Sheriff that
the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Our Home was secretly
living in 

 home. I regret this now.”

Brady added, “I
told you not to do that, Stewart!”

Robinson then
replied, head in his hands, “I know, Chris. You were right! You’re


 right.”

“

,” came a cold
whisper over their shoulders.

Stay tuned here
as we bring you more news of today’s arrest.

And now, it’s
time for another edition of my popular advice segment, “Hey There,
Cecil.” Let’s get to your questions.

“Hey there,
Cecil! I date a lot of people, but never for very long. I find that
while I sometimes say ‘I love you’ to my girlfriend or boyfriend at
the time, I don’t think I have ever meant it. How do you know if
you’re in love?” Signed, Loveless in the Barista District.

Hey there,
Loveless. I think when you’re truly in love, you’ll know it. But you
have to be in the right place with yourself to find that love. As my
mother used to tell me, “you can’t learn to love others until you
learn that others are fiction, and that self is unreliable.”

Next question.

“Hey there,
Cecil. My husband and I regularly host dinner parties for our
neighbors, and vice versa. When our neighbors come over to the house,
they never take off their shoes. I, personally, don’t have a problem
with that, but my husband thinks it’s rude. What’s your take?”
Signed, Unshod in Old Town.

Hey there,
Unshod. Whoo! This is, uh, pretty clear cut to me. It is customary,
when you enter a person’s home, that you must always remove your
shoes. Then you must remove 

 shoes. You must hold that
person down, take their shoes – just get their shoes off! This is
standard etiquette.

We’ve got time
for one more question.

“Hey there,
Cecil. Do you know the tower? The one that casts no shadow? It also
sounds like an un-tuned cello? Do you know the one? Smells like
sulfur? Well, it’s glowing now.” Signed, Malevolent in Mission
Grove Park.

Hey there,
Malevolent. You know as well as I do, that tower was destroyed a
century ago. 

Old Woman Josie
and her friends, who are not angels – just a bunch of really tall
people with wings named Erika whom we cannot bear to look directly at
– said that the New Old Night Vale Opera House was coming along
nicely. Although I drove past the construction site the other day,
and it’s still a mostly empty lot. The only difference is that they
changed the sign from “Josefina Contractors, Inc.” to “StrexCorp
Operatics, Ltd.”

Also, there’s a
giant opera house there.

But, other than
that, it still looks nearly the same as when they broke ground months
ago.

Opening night of
the New Old Opera House will be June 15th, and will feature the world
premiere of an original opera by the famous actor and composer, Lee
Marvin – Night Vale’s own immortal legend of stage and screen.

Still
no word on 

 an
opera is. Uh, I’m being told it’s 


a petting zoo, but with fewer starving wolves. And more
intermissions.

Breaking news
from City Hall as the Sheriff’s Secret Police say they have now
arrested more than a dozen Faceless Old Women. The spokesdeer, still
speaking in Russian for the Russian-speaking press, while also
writing English words in the dirt for the embittered English-speaking
press, say that the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your
Home seems to be several bodies connected to a single sentience.

She seems not to
be omnipresent at all; merely multi-present. The Secret Police
spokesdeer then laughed in Russian, while writing “hehehe” in
English in the dirt.

 You’re betraying me, Cecil.

 Oh! Oh dear,
that's– that– that’s simply not true! I– OK.

Now
there’s a…very long insect…crawling into my ear. Um…it’s all
th– it’s all the way in my ear now! Um, I am 


OK with this, Faceless Old Woman!

Faceless Old
Woman?

Ah! Aah!

Listeners, hang
on while I get this silverfish out of my ear canal.

OK. OK. Um,
so…traffic.

Um, it looks
pretty bad out there. We’ve got a jackknifed 18-wheeler on the
shoulder of westbound Route 800 near Exit 4, causing serious delays,
and the bus depot on Somerset, um…a fire hydrant was cracked open,
and now space and time have colla– 


OK, I’m sorry,
listeners, I…I’m taking my headphones off. I'm– I’m having a hard
time hearing myself. I think the Faceless Old Woman really did damage
to my ear! Anyway, traffic’s awful, of course. Always is. Don’t drive
on Somerset unless you want all of your matter collapsing into a
singularity.

Ugh, r– r–
really glad to be home. Great homecoming!

An update now on
the multiple arrests of the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in
Your Home: apparently they’ve managed to find 15 more versions of her
in homes all over town. But, according to the spokesdeer, the Secret
Police are running out of room in the jails.

Also, even at the
homes where they have arrested these Faceless Old Women, there are
still reported cases of vandalism, and whispers, and suggested
violence, and sudden but inscrutable movements in the corners of
vision. In fact, these reporters are happening even in homes where an
arrest of the Faceless Old Woman had already been made.

Many city
buildings, especially the Secret Police’s Secret Police Station,
hidden in a hover cloud, have received quite a bit of damage: bird
parts in filing cabinets, bullets replaced with worms, badges reading
“Rotted Meat” instead of “Secret Police.”

Mayor Dana
Cardinal has called on the police to temporarily cease their
crackdown on the Faceless Old Woman. The mayor claims she’s been
terrorized by falling televisions and window-mounted A.C. units, as
well as all of the carpet in her City Hall office being replaced by
dark, heaving fur, as if the floor were now the back of some terrible
beast.

Listeners, I’m
not falling for this bit again! Mayor Cardinal, once my friend, has
abused my good nature too much. She bought me at an auction, and has
since been using me against my will to rescue her from danger.

Well, she’s just
going to have to figure it out on her own this time.

 I’m here, Cecil. Shh.

Ow! Gr– gross!
Stop it, Faceless Old Woman, stop it!

Weather. Let’s go
to the weather.

[“

”
by 

]

Well. I have
cotton swabs in both ears now, listeners, and am more than a little
bit irritated. But on with the news.

The Secret Police
just retracted their earlier reports that they had captured the
Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home. They thought they
had been arresting several corporeal forms of her across town, but in
actuality they had just been arresting a bunch of faceless old women
who openly live in their own homes. It seems, in retrospect, that the
Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home, still secretly
lives in your home, and has never stopped vandalizing your home in
protest of these arrests of innocent women.

These faceless
old women are now filing a civil suit against the Sheriff’s Secret
Police for unfair profiling practices against elderly women who
happen to have no faces.

And the Sheriff
just issued the following public apology:

“Non-specifically,
my bad!” said the Sheriff from his hover office in the clouds.

“In general,
really sorry about all kinds of things. We’re cool now, right?” the
Sheriff added before dissipating into tiny crystalline droplets,
which fell gently, a silver moment to the hardened earth below.

Maybe I did speak
too soon about being happy to be back home.

Oh. While I was
reporting the weather, I received this voicemail from Carlos:


Hi, babe! I heard you were apparently off saving the mayor again just
now. I’m sorry I missed you.

So…I wanted to
ask…eh– I– I was so afraid to ask while you were here because I
didn’t want to complicate our peaceful vacation with difficult
choices, but…uh, here goes.

Cecil, remember
that building? The simple rectangular building with the tall, pointed
top and covered  entirely in a tarp? You asked several times what
that tarp was covering and I said I didn’t want to say…yet.

And you remember
the familiar-seeming man searing dark sunglasses with what looked
like blood stains on his shirt but I assured you was just barbecue
sauce?

Well, he built
that building under the tarp! Cecil, it’s a radio station! Kevin
built a radio station! He doesn’t seem to be planning anything evil.
In fact, he seems pretty relaxed and friendly these days! He built it
for anyone who wants to broadcast or listen to broadcasts.

And,
it got me thinking, and I– I– I– I mean– you don’t have to
decide 

. And–
and– you don't– you don’t even have to decide 


at all, but…but– but– but– but would you ever think
about…I– would you– would you ever consider…

Ugh!

This is tough to
ask on voicemail.

Just call me,
okay? Call me when you’re off the air. I love you.


Yes. Yes, I would, Carlos. I think I really would.

It was so serene
there. So lovely.

Okay.

Private thoughts
done, uh, let’s turn my microphone back on now.

Well,
listeners, I wonder what Carlos might be trying to ask me? I mean,
it’s probably nothing, and…even if it was 

,
I don’t think I would move away or anything. Hehe…move away? No one
said anything about moving away! Who moves away?

I have to stick
around a bit, anyway, because my sister and brother-in-law are going
out of town for a couple of weeks and need me to look after my niece
Janice. I don’t want to disappoint Janice! I mean, how could I
disappoint Janice? By moving away?

Why do you keep
saying that? Who’s moving away? Not me!

So, I’ll be sure
to stay very focused on being a good uncle and guardian. Plus,
apparently the mayor needs me around to save her all the time. Hate
to leave that behind.

Stay tuned next
for the sound of folding cardboard and long strips of tape.

And to all of the
faceless old women, living secretly or living otherwise: fight the
good fight. Just…leave me out of it. OK?

Yeah, these
cotton balls are already soaked.

And, to everyone
else:

Goodnight, Night
Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 69 - Fashion Week


But don’t you see? You never needed anything else. The weird was within you the whole time. 

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Hello listeners. Later, News, capital N. But forget about that. First news, lower case N. 

It’s Fashion Week in Night Vale, that exciting time of year in which we all get to decide what is fashionable and what is not. To use the charming colloquialism, we decide what is “in the sphere” and what is “spared from the sphere”. This is Night Vale’s hippest event, and everyone is there, because it is required by law. So everyone is there, and scared, and it is hip as heck. 

Michelle Nguyen is the only one who doesn’t look scared. This is her favorite holiday, and she is wearing a vintage summoning cloak and a dog catcher’s cap, and has two tiny neon signs attached to her face indicating her eyes. She is the most fashionable person in town, and certain to be spared from the sphere. 

Others are less lucky. Town clerk, Veronica Rothschild, is running around saying “oh no, oh no”, and adjusting her unfashionably distressed eyeglasses, casting glances backward at the sphere which is moving implacably to devour the unhip and absorb the outdated. Soon she will stumble, and then the sphere will be upon her. It’s like that popular joke: why did the hipster burn her mouth? Because she survived the sphere and was able to eat her pizza before it was cool. And sure enough, Michelle Nguyen, pizza in hand, is cackling madly watching the chaos and listening intently to headphones that are plugged into nothing at all. 

The Sheriff’s Secret Police are seeking any leads or witnesses in the case of the disappearances at the housing development of the Shambling Orphan. Over the last several weeks, at least twelve people have vanished without a trace. Except for our memories of their previous existence which, according to a roving gang of pedantic philosophers, who has been interrupting Secret Police press conferences, does in fact count as a trace. “Memories are as real as any of our constructed experiences of the world,” said one philosopher, without invitation, interrupting important information about the missing persons. “I bet you think reality is a thing,” he continued, much to the delight of his fellow philosophers, and not a single other person in attendance. 

The philosophers were last seen high-fiving each other while drinking cheap, but locally made canned beer. The missing persons were last seen at home, and on the street, about town, about their lives, just normally living, until suddenly and unaccountably, they no longer were seen anywhere at all. Residents of the Shambling Orphan and the nearby development, the Desert Pines, express mild concern over their strong fears about their abject terror. 

More on the story as we grasp at narrative threads that can assuage our helplessness in the face of inexplicable tragedy. 

Listeners, last week I had my niece Janice over while her parents were taking a romantic long weekend in the kingdom of the Deros, deep within the hollow earth. Which is of course easily accessed by ordering any item from the Arby’s market fresh menu. Yeah, it was really nice to get some time alone with Janice. She’s getting older, you know, and is moving from a child, which is something of an abstract concept, to a person with adult ideas and thoughts and feelings, a human being who you can relate to and with, which is also an abstract concept. We talked, and watched movies. She let me put on Cat Ballou five times in a row, because that was Carlos and I’s movie night thing and I had been missing that. We ate popcorn. I asked her about any girls or boys she might be interested in, and she diverted me politely but awkwardly to other subjects. I let her. It’s not for me to pry, that’s the government’s job. And if I’m ever curious, I can look at the public registry of middle school crushes, which is constantly being updated via mind scanning satellite. 

Janice gave me a feeling of family. I rarely feel anymore. Eh, it was a good feeling. I hope I will be able to visit Janice regularly.

In an earlier program, we brought you this week’s Community Calendar. However, it appears that there were a few errors in our reporting, so we would like to offer some corrections to our previous calendar. 

Monday we said was free hot chocolate day at the Moonlite All-Nite Diner. In actuality, Monday will be the day that a great craft crashes down from the heavens, and we all will surround the ominous bulk of it, still glowing hot and smoking from the impact, whispering and wondering, helpless to act.

Tuesday we said was sign-up day for the Night Vale adult kickball league in Mission Grove Park. We were right about an event taking place in the park, but it appears that this event will instead be a creature emerging from the craft, towering over us and, in a language we should not understand and yet, and yet we do understand, demanding that we worship it.

Wednesday we described as being just a nice day to go outside and take a walk. Just a really nice day for it, we said. Stretch those gams, we said. We said the word “gams” over and over, seemingly unable to say anything else. As it turns out, Wednesday is actually the day we will stage a brief but ultimately unsuccessful resistance against the horde of slimy, many-appendaged alien warriors pouring out from the landing craft. 

Thursday we said would be the day that beings from another world fully defeat us. And we will line the roads and avenues on our knees, heads bowed in recognition of our new masters, our new gods. Turns out we were 100 per cent right on that one, so we didn’t completely get the week schedule wrong.

Friday we said would be the day that your citizen renewal packets are due, you know, the reams and reams of paperwork probing every personal detail that you have to fill out in order to remain a citizen of Night Vale. Well, it’s still the day to do that, but instead of turning it in to the City Council, who will at that point be locked in a hyperdimensional prison by the occupying extraterrestrials, you will instead turn it in to the supervisor of your assigned human pod, so that they can gauge how much energy can be extracted from your body.

Saturday we said was Caturday. We didn’t mean anything by this, we just thought it would be funny. People didn’t find it funny. They wrote and called the station, demanding an explanation. Janice Rio from down the street seemed especially disturbed. “What do you mean it’s Caturday? Will we be attacked by giant cats? Will the giant cats build huge black cubes all over town? Will I be forced to enter a strange black cube that will absorb my essence until there’s nothing left of me? I am allergic to cats!” Janice cried. 

Well no, Janice, and I’m sorry for causing a panic. Saturday will actually be the day the invading aliens start feeding on us, so don’t worry, no cats that day. Caturday is just a fun day to say. Caturday!

And Sunday, well, we were right about Sunday, so there you go. Just as we said, Sunday will be the day that Tamika Flynn and the beings who claim to be angels team up to lead a dramatic attack against the occupying force with the help of every Night Vale citizen, driving away our new masters and reinstating our old masters, who are brutal and awful, but who at least are a brutal and awful we know and understand. 

This has been Corrections. Or, the Community Calendar. Um, Community Corrections? I don’t know. This has been what it was. 

Fashion Week continues, and the sphere is huge and pulsing. Everyone is screaming and running and looking just as fashionable as they ever have in their soon-to-be-ended lives. Director of emergency press conferences, Pamela Winchell, is ostentatiously using decorated cigarette holders of ludicrous length, despite the fact that she does not actually smoke. She’s not holding them delicately between her first two fingers, but instead gripping hundreds of cigarette holders in her fist, like a quiver of arrows. “See how hip,” she is saying in a booming voice, levitating quite fashionably three feet off the ground. “See how absolutely of the time I am!” The sphere hums next to her for a moment, and then rolls by, leaving her be. So it seems like this year, holding a quiver of cigarette holders is very “spared from the sphere” indeed.

Good survival tip there.

Old Woman Josie, speaking from the headquarters of Strex Operatic Limited, said that the New Old Night Vale Opera House is complete, and that rehearsals are under full swing for opening night, on June 15, of a brand new opera written, composed, directed, by and starring legendary screen actor Lee Marvin, who will also form the entirety of the cast and will be selling concessions during intermission. Josie said that Night Vale citizens should expect some of the usual disruptions resulting from rehearsal of any kind of live performance. Namely, stop and go traffic in a several block radius around thetheater, a wake of buzzards circling over the city, and a slight uptick in the number of patients at the emergency room.

So it sounds like this opera, whatever opera means and whatever it is, will be a blast! 

And now, Traffic.

A man came and went. He was here before and now isn’t. How briefly the moment of 

 before the endless 

. He was not a serious man, but then this is not a serious life. We all heard him speak, did we not? We still do. He is speaking still, even though he is not anything else at all. How comforting the continuation of communication past that point. He was our tour guide through the cosmos, he would say, and then apologize for saying it. He was not a serious man. But then, this is not a serious life. A man came and went. He was here before, and now isn’t. We miss him. 

This has been Traffic. 

The Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home made a public statement that she will not wait any longer. She will destroy Mayor Dana Cardinal once and for all, and claim the mayorship for herself. In her statement, which was stitched into the inside lining of my jacket this morning, she said: “You want opera? You want grand performance? On opening night, you will see a spectacle indeed. A spectacle indeed.” 

Meanwhile, still no word from Hiram McDaniels, the literal five-headed dragon and the Faceless Old Woman’s previous partner in crime. According to local normal citizen, Frank Chen, Hiram left town weeks ago and won’t be seen around here again. Frank’s other four heads agreed, except the purple head, which had a bag over it and was mumbling, “Please don’t include me in your foolish schemes ever again! If it were up to me, things would be very different! Things are different every time it is up to me!” 

The other heads hushed the head with the bag over it and reiterated that they are just a regular guy, like you or me or anyone else who identifies as a regular guy, with things like a pick-up and pieces of denim clothing, and enjoyment of certain types of music, and being completely wingless, despite how powerless this must feel.

Oh, hear that? Listeners, the time has come. The sphere has arrived at the station. It hums, looming; it considers,humming; it looms, the sphere will decide whether the station and the souls within it are hip enough to be spared. I tell you now that I… did not prepare for the sphere. It’s not that I forgot, i-it is that I do not care, and I’m not afraid. I don’t know. I wear leather pants and a Hawaiian shirt and a baseball hat made of honeycomb. I just wore the same thing I slept in last night. If I get ingested by a fashion-conscious sphere for wearing comfy casual clothes, then that’ll just be what happened to me. I don’t write the story of my life, I only live it.

So, while the sphere does whatever it will do next, I take you all - well, all of you hip enough to still remain, to the weather.

[ “

” by Kim Tillman & Silent Films (

 & 

) ]

Back from the weather, still here! The sphere moved on and is now out in the scrublands and sand wastes, deciding which cacti and cottontail rabbits are of the now, and which must be assimilated into the pulsating dark innards of the sphere. 

Of course, radio is always hip! Radio is timeless! Community radio exists outside of time and space and so is the most fashionable thing of all. Of course. We all know this. So it’s good that our station was spared and that I will continue doing radio for the foreseeable future. 

I’m not stopping radio broadcasting. I won’t be doing it here, but I’ll be continuing to do it. Right.

So I guess it’s time then. Um, at the start of all this, I promised News, capital N. Here is the News. 

My next broadcast as host of Night Vale Community Radio - will be my last, in Night Vale. I am moving to the Desert Otherworld to spend more time with sweet, talented Carlos and the community he has built out there in that vast, sandy alternate dimension. There is a radio station there built by Kevin, who.. seems to have himself pretty under control, and his studio only has a little bit of blood, so I should be able to continue doing what I’m doing just fine. I won’t be doing it in a way that you will be able to hear. But that, too, is just fine. 

I’ve missed Carlos greatly, and I’ve also grown weary of a mayor that can’t protect herself, of a town that fears outsiders. Of a Faceless Old Woman who secretly lives in my home and publicly wants to do me harm. And I think of a Desert Otherworld where it’s always sunny, and mountains are real. There is a helpful masked army that can build anything, and your cell phone battery never dies, even if reception is 4G at best.

There is the question: is Night Vale worth it? Is Night Vale good? Is it a good town? 

Well… I will, for the first time in my long life, live somewhere other than Night Vale. But, as a poet once said, “no matter where you end up, you’re still from your home town.” 

I’ll be back to visit from time to time, of course. I need to see Janice and my old friend Josie, and many others besides. I am not gone, but I am going. I’m going to live somewhere I can feel good about, somewhere newer and better for me. 

[sighs] Stay tuned next, eventually, for me reporting on the opening of the Opera House, and then not reporting on anything else here, ever again. 

Penultimately, good night, Night Vale. Good night. 

Episode 7 - History Week


It is almost complete. It is almost complete at last.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

The cave paintings mainly resemble smudges now, after their original discoverer attempted to power-wash them off the wall because he, on religious grounds, did not believe in the past. 

And now the news:

The Night Vale Tourism Board asks that whoever is telepathically assaulting the tourists 

.

According to the NVTB executive director, Madeline LeFleur, there were two separate incidents in one week of entire tour buses suddenly shrieking in unbridled terror and trying to blind themselves using rolled-up “Visitable Night Vale” brochures – all to the utter confusion of the bus drivers.

LeFleur added, “We just had those brochures printed.”

LeFleur claims that tourism accounts for tens of thousands of dollars annually for Night Vale, and the town 

 itself on hospitality. She said that if good-hearted families travel to Night Vale only to find their subconsciouses besieged with unforgettable revelations, horrors buried 

 as to be completely indescribable, revealing wholly unbearable new truths, then we certainly can’t expect these people to return…let alone leave good Yelp ratings for local businesses.

The city is asking residents for help in determining who, or what, is causing these psychological infractions. The tourism board is offering puppies as a reward for information on this case.

Or, even if you don’t have information, the city asks that you come get a puppy or two anyway.

Seriously.

Downtown municipal offices are overrun with them. In the trees, walls, carpentry…the exterminators are completely stymied by this infestation.

It has been several weeks since anyone in Night Vale has seen the Apache Tracker – that white guy who wears the inaccurate and horribly offensive Indian headdress everywhere. He has not been seen since he began investigating the Great Screaming heard at the post office, and the words written in blood inside.

Also the entire structure of his house has vanished, and the lot where it stood is now a bucolic meadow that neighborhood kids will not ever enter for reasons even they are unable to explain.

I think I speak for everyone in the community when I say good riddance to that local embarrassment. He made the whole town look ignorant and racist.

And now, let us continue with our Night Vale History Week special feature.

The first white men arrived in Night Vale. Which was not Night Vale then, but was rather just another part of a large and featureless desert. I think we can all agree, though, that even as large and featureless as the desert was, the part that would eventually become Desert Bluffs was still probably awful and drab in comparison to our part.

In any case, the story goes that a party of explorers came to the area that would be Night Vale, looked around, and immediately left to go find somewhere with more water, and maybe some trees.

Then another three parties of explorers did the same thing.

Then finally, one party of explorers all looked at each other, shrugged, and plopped down their stuff…and thus was a proud city born. 

And now, traffic.

Crews from the Department of Public Safety will be repainting highway lane markers this week. The common white dashes and double yellow lane dividers will be replaced with colorful ceramic mosaics depicting disgruntled South American workers rising en masse against an abusive capitalist hegemony.

The protective steel barriers along curves in the road will be taken down to make room for some really lovely and provocative butcher-paper silhouettes of slavery-era self-mutilation, reflective of several centuries of slow genocide and dehumanization by Western imperialists, designed by contemporary art darling Kara Walker.

Also, Exits 15 to 17 along Route 800 will be closed for the next two Saturdays because of the biennial Lee Marvin Film Retrospective. So please watch for working crews this weekend, lower your speed, and don’t forget to tip the DPS shift leaders. 20% of your current mileage is standard. Lack of tipping is the leading cause of sinkholes in the U.S.

The first meeting of the Town Elder Council, predecessors to the City Council. Picture them: crimson robes and soft meat crowns (as was traditional at the time), setting the groundwork for the splendor of today’s Night Vale.

A number of elements of our modern civic process were invented in that single three-hour meeting, including the City Council membership (since unchanged), the lovably Byzantine tax system (as well as the system of brutal penalties for mistakes) and the official town song, chant, and moan. All records of this meeting were destroyed, and…according to a note being passed to me just now, I am to report to City Hall for reeducation effective tomorrow morning.

Oh, dear.  

The results of a recent survey of Night Vale residents came to light this week. The study found widespread dissatisfaction with our town’s public library. And, when considering the facts, it’s easy to see why.

The public computers for internet use are outdated and slow. The lending period of 14 days is not nearly long enough to read lengthier books, given the busy schedules of all our lives.

The fatality rate is also well above the national average for public libraries. The library bloodstone circle does not appear to have seen any maintenance or cleaning in some time. There are reports of a faceless spectre moving about the Biography section, picking off lone browsers one by one.

And that Biography section, by the way, is far too small and has been oddly curated – containing 33 copies of the official biography of Helen Hunt, and 

.

From top to bottom, the public library is a disgrace to our fair city and I can only hope that our City Council does something about that soon, or I may find myself hoping that the faceless spectre puts the library to the same mysterious, violent end as its many victims.

Night Vale High won the grudge match against the Desert Bluffs Vultures last night. Two-headed quarterback Michael Sandero credits the win to help from Angels! The Angels have made an adamant denial of any involvement whatsoever in the game. The school district ethics committee has announced that they will look into any possible “Angelic interference”. 

Speaking of which, Night Vale High School is adding metal detectors, and parents and students alike are outraged. Several parents we talked to said that NVHS students have long been recipients of shadow government-issued Uzis and rifles, as well as tasers  and armor-piercing munitions. The School Board’s decision to put up metal detectors, according to parents, impinges on the clandestine operation’s rights as a vast underground conspiracy of giant megacorporations and corrupt world leaders to bear arms via teenage paramilitary proxies.

The School Board countered that studies indicate that weapons distract from educators’ ability to educate, and that students who bring firearms to classrooms are more likely to use firearms than students 

 firearms. The School Board says that school shootings can only get in the way of a quality education.

Well…at the risk of becoming too much a part of this story, dear listeners, might I say that the Night Vale School District is overstepping its bounds by telling us whether or not our children can be armed by undercover militants? Should it be a school’s job to say, “No, child, you cannot have grenades or assault rifles in the classroom”? I think not!

Beginning November first, all students at NVHS will enter the school through metal detectors. Any firearms or weaponry found will be confiscated and held in the counselor’s office until after school, when the students can pick them up again.

Seriously, listeners, what’s next? Removing the line “Praise the beams, praise, o ye knowing beams that guide our lives, our hearts, our souls; praise o highest to ye all-powerful beams” from the Pledge of Allegiance?!

Let’s return to another key moment in Night Vale history. 

As part of the war effort, Night Vale citizens dedicated themselves to chanting. The young, the old, men and women alike gathered around their bloodstones and chanted for the victory of the United States.

While some credit must be given to the strategic planning of U.S Command, and to the brave fighting of American soldiers, most reputable scholars believe that Night Vale’s chanting was the deciding factor in America’s eventual victory over the Axis powers.

The City Council erected a seven-story monument in Grove Park saying so in large, neon letters…until a federal lawsuit forced them to take it down.

And now, a word from our sponsors.

That word is 

.

This next installment in our exploration of Night Vale’s storied past takes place in the future.

The scion of the Dark Order will descend, realize he mistimed the prophecy, and re-ascend. The Seventh Siege of the Great Night Vale Temple will rage on. The plague of buzzing boils will kill thousands, and annoy thousands more, with its buzzing.

The City Council will reveal its true form and eat half of Night Vale’s population.

Approval ratings for the mayor will hover in the low 40s…which will be surprising, as there will have been no mayor for over thirty years. 

And now, the weather!

[“

” by 

]

The Night Vale Business Association announced today that the Night Vale Harbor and Waterfront Recreation Area was not 

 something that ever existed in reality, but was instead a shared hallucination of the entire town’s population. 

They recommend consulting your dream interpretation manuals to determine exactly what this “Night Vale Harbor” vision could mean. They also said that if you happen to stumble on the Waterfront buildings out in the desert exactly where you remembered them, and they seem completely real, standing as vacant and useless as the day they were built, that’s because you are still hallucinating and should seek medical treatment immediately. Or have a member of the City Council howl at you if you are of the Olden Faith, and do not believe in modern medicine. 

For our final story in this week’s featured look into the history of Night Vale, let’s look at the very recent past.

I had cereal for breakfast, a sandwich for lunch, steak for dinner. Cars were driven, cars were not driven. The sun gave a great shout of light and then, after several hours of thought, quietly retracted the statement.

Old Woman Josie dug up a box in a shady corner of her yard and carried it, cradled in her arms like a baby or a delicate explosive, to another part of her yard where she buried it again.

An unknown person did something that no one else saw, the nature and extent of which is impossible to determine, and the result of which will be lost in the chaotic chain of causation and consequence that is history.

But most importantly, all of us – all of us here in Night Vale, in America, in the world, in the secret orbital bases – 

 got through another day. We passed the time from one end of twelve to the other without stopping once.

Well done, us! Good job, people who experience time! Time experiencers! 

And, from 

 moment in history, the one that’s happening right now…

Goodnight.

Episode 70A - Taking Off



We all have to start somewhere. We all have to end somewhere, too,
but let’s concentrate on the other thing.

Welcome
to…well, hmm. Welcome to the Desert Otherworld.

We
should come up with a better name for this place. Names are, after
all, extremely important.

Hi,
I’m your radio host Kevin. I’m speaking to you from our brand new
station! And this is our inaugural broadcast. I’m 

 to be back on the air!
I’m not sure we have any listeners yet, but we will. We will!

Later
in the show, we’ll be talking to Doug and Alisha, leaders of the army
of masked giants who roam this desert, and who have been instrumental
in building our new city. They’ve been so welcoming to us outsiders!
Not 

 outsiders,
though. They are, after all, a violent and territorial army. But 


outsiders. People like me and like my friend Carlos. He’s a
scientist. He’s a beautiful man who does beautiful things.

I have
Carlos on the phone with us right now with some breaking news.
Carlos! Tell everyone about the huge project you’ve been working on
this past year.


Hi, Kevin! Thanks for having me on the show.

So,
first off, Doug and Alisha are here in my kitchen. Alisha built a
refrigerator from some cactus pads, twine, and three different kinds
of birds, and 


they’re making a bunch of pasta salad for lunch this week! They’ll
save some for you if you’d like.


How delightful! I’m…totally disgusted by pasta salad. Can’t stand
the taste or the smell. In fact, to look at it causes me to heave.
But thank you, that’s so kind!


…Right.

So,
this new experiment – and I have to tell you, I am 


excited about it. You know how our cell phones always work in this
desert otherworld, even though there are no towers, and how they
never seem to run out of battery?


Yes! I 

 taking
these facts for granted!


Well, I’m on the verge of uncovering what’s causing that. Here in my
laboratory, which Doug and Alisha and one of the other soldiers whose
name is 


built for me, I’ve been hard at work pacing about in front of a row
of conical flasks, beakers, and Y-tubes, 


writing Greek letters and Arabic numbers and I 

,
later today, I will make an enormous breakthrough.


What did you find out?


I can’t say yet. I’m just waiting on my computer to finish
calculating the– 



…Everything okay?


I don’t know. Alisha and Doug look really agitated. They’re jumping
up and down by the window. The other giant soldiers are running into
formation outside. I need to see what’s wrong.


While Carlos checks on our favorite soldiers, let’s get an update now
on the roller coaster inhabitants!

I’m
referring to the roller coaster Doug and Alisha built for our new
town months ago. It looks terribly fun! It has a tall first hill, and
a 90º drop off that is almost 600 feet, I’m told, and then, it goes
into a series of loops and turns and figure 8s and 


some spirals, where the riders go upside down several times! Per
second! And then, there’s a sheet of flames that, as you approach, it
looks like you’re about to go right through the fire, but at the last
second, the track spirals again and you go through the fire upside
down!

Ohh!
Anyway, it’s an exciting-looking ride. I haven’t been on it yet.
That’s because after they started it on its first trip, they haven’t
been able to stop it. They didn’t invent brakes, so…that’s an
issue!

And
even though they cut the power to the ride, it’s still going, with
the same passengers, caught in an interminable cycle of fun!

Ohh!
We have Carlos back on the line again! Carlos?


Doug and Alisha are gone. It turns out that the commotion was over
another army marching along the horizon. Doug and Alisha ran


 around the
house and through the kitchen, overturning my cutting board and
grabbing their weapons. Alisha took my chef’s knife, and Doug made a
makeshift slughorn out of one of my large funnels so that he could
call their army to action.


Good for them, protecting our community!


No, but…I– I– I was trying to explain that the other army was
marching 


to us, they were not marching 


us. This desert is filled with small armies, always marching in
different directions. We– we can’t attack them all for no reason!

And
now my kitchen counter is demolished.


Oh, it’ll grow back.

So?
I’m so excited to learn more about your research into the strange
properties of this region. I think you once called this desert
otherworld “the most scientifically interesting community in the
U.S.”


Well…no, my exact words were– 



So…when do you expect the results? Sounds like whatever you come up
with could possibly be a monumental shift in how we perceive
thermodynamic laws.


Well, I’m at my lab right now, hunched over my computer, waiting for
it to complete its final report, then comparing its results to my
thousands of hand-written notes from the past year. I believe I can
pinpoint the exact source of this desert’s energy. It shouldn’t be
long. Please don’t rush me.


Great! Let us know soon, though!

While
Carlos does that, perhaps I can tell you all a little bit about our
new radio station. Take you on an audio tour, if you will.

We
have a tall broadcast tower made of stones and adobe. Those zig-zaggy
electrical bolts visibly shooting outward from the top of the tower?
Those are actual radio waves!

Inside
the building itself, we have a small broadcast booth with a couple of
new mics. Some of the members of the masked army of giants helped me
decorate my studio, too! It was so empty and bloodless before. It
required a lot of lizards and rodents, but…it’s finally starting to
feel like home!

I’ve
got a producer’s booth just off to my right. I can see my old intern
Vanessa in there, hi Vanessa!! We’re a bit understaffed, so Vanessa
has been having to act as my producer as well as head of sales and
marketing, and even answering phones! Good thing she has a
doppelgänger to help out. Most people kill their double,
but…that’s such a waste of a good opportunity! The more the
merrier, the more productive, I say!

Oh!
And we’re hiring right now! If you have experience in any of the
following areas: ad sales, graphic design, office management,
entomology, Fortran programming, falconry, or sports law, please send
your resume to Radio Station, Care of Kevin.

We
have no postal service in the desert otherworld, nor any mailboxes,
so it’s important that you carefully re-read 

 by Rhonda Byrne in order to 


your resume into my office.

Sounds
like Carlos is back on the line now! Did you get the results from
your…


Doug and Alisha are back.


Oh, good! So wonderful to have dear friends around to be a part of
your brilliant achievement.


Yeah, but they’re in no condition to celebrate the great strides of
scientific study right now. Most of the army returned from fighting,
but there are more than a dozen who did not. Alisha lost two fingers,
and Doug is bleeding quite badly because of a compound fracture in
his forearm. Everyone who returned is in treatable condition. I
believe they’ll be fine. But they’re wounded, and need lots of rest.

 It’s a mess over
here.


Good thing they have such a good and helpful friend in you.

So,
tell us about your study on the strange energy here in the desert.


Ugh. I– I c– I can’t yet. The army came in so quickly, dropping
their weapons everywhere, along with some detached limbs that I don’t
even think 

 to
them, and all of my journals, which I had left out and open on my
desk, have been rendered unusable. There are broken beakers and
blood-soaked composition notebooks everywhere. I don’t even know
where to begin cleaning up all of this blood!

Ohhh.
Ohhh!


I’m sorry, did you just say something?


Nnnnnnnnnno? I…just…like your story. Carry on.

Doug?
Doug? Come back!

Kevin, I have to go.
Doug just constructed a makeshift splint out of rocks and snakes. He
just grabbed his axe and ran out the back door.

Ugh.
And there goes Alisha.

Call you back, Kevin.
They can’t go on like this.


Oh, listeners, I’m getting word of strong winds out of the east,
stirring up dust devils and hurling plant debris and weak-willed
animals through the air. This is a rare sunless day for our
otherworld desert.

While
Carlos tries to get his notes un-bloodied, let’s have a closer look
at the weather.

[“

”
by 

]


Wow! That weather report was informative! I had no idea how dangerous
a storm that was until I heard that report.

To be
a radio broadcaster who gets to tell stories about things that make
us unhappy thrills me to my bones! Because by telling people about
all that can make us unhappy, I prepare them to truly enjoy those
happy moments when they come.

Once,
my hometown of Desert Bluffs had a deadly outbreak of throat spiders.
Hundreds were diagnosed with this usually-treatable disease, but it
was a particularly virulent strain, and many people died, or were
left without voices and lower jaws when it was all over. Almost a day
wouldn’t go by where you didn’t hear a fit of strenuous coughing,
punctuated by a muffled 


only to turn around and see a cascade of tiny spiders pouring over
the craggy ledge that used to be a person’s lower teeth.

Each
day I got to report these upsetting stories, but the 


part about it was when Desert Bluffs residents eventually stopped
losing part of their faces to throat spiders, and we all rejoiced in
our newly-healthy and happy lives.

As the
saying goes, “it’s always dawn.”

Oh!
And speaking of sunshine, Carlos just arrived here, live in the
studio with me! Carlos? Did you go out in this weather? You’re
covered in dust, and those look like friction burns in the shape of
lab goggles on your face. Are you okay? Did Doug and Alisha make it
back?


Not yet. They…

What
is this all over your studio? Is that barbecue sauce?


Oh, that? That’s just blood! And some old bones, and loose teeth, and
beaks and things. I finally decorated, thanks for noticing! And 


just notice you have a piece of paper in your hand! That must be your
final report! Look at how we both notice things about each other! I
love that!


I…I, um…


Well, you sound sad. Which is great news, because it means you’ll be
happy again eventually! It’s a tough day, what with all the weather
and the wars and the blood. But you’re boyfriend will soon be moving
from Night Vale to come live here with you!


Well, um…about that…


And? 

 You finally
have the scientific results of your hard scientific work!


I don’t. I don’t have results, Kevin! When the army marched out again
I went back to trying to recover my notes. I had just gotten the lab
desktops clean when Alisha’s large dog bounded through the lab and
out the front door, sending every glass tube and jar crashing onto
the floor. When I bent over to see the damage, I saw my computer
there too, just on the tiles, snapped nearly in half, a tuft of white
fur covering the keyboard, singed slightly by the smoke streaking out
of the broken monitor.

I lost
it all, Kevin. My entire year of study is gone.


What’s the paper, then? Did you at least learn 


of your results?


This is nothing. It’s, um, just a letter I wrote to, uh…a friend.


Oh? I 

 letters!
Letters are so fun to receive!


Mmm, not this one. It’s a sad letter. A letter about regrets, about
mistakes.

You
know how sometimes you spend a lot of time with someone, and you
think that the someone makes you happy, but then suddenly one day you
realize…maybe you weren’t happy at all. Maybe both would be better
off doing what you love in different places. Without each other.
Maybe neither of you were as happy as either of you thought.


That is a sad-sounding letter. I don’t understand or like that at
all.


I have spent the last year all wrong.


I believe in you, Carlos! Don’t let destruction, blood, and war hold
you back! You’re a brilliant scientist!


I realize I need to just start everything over, rededicate myself. I
need to do it right this time. No more distractions. I can’t spend
another year like this one.

So…it
pains me to carry this letter, but…I wrote it to set my boundaries.


So you know, there’s no postal service here yet.


I know. Um, that’s why I’m hand-delivering it.


Oh. Remember, no one should ever be sad. Choose not to be sad,
Carlos. In fact, choose to be happy! Perhaps your letter is the first
step to choosing happiness, even while it makes someone else sad.


I understand. Listen, um, I should go. I’m headed to Night Vale one
final time. I need to talk to Cecil about…well, about some changes.
Thanks for everything, Kevin. You’ve been so kind to me in this
difficult year.


Goodbye, Carlos!

Well,
it’s a shame that our huge scientific breakthrough didn’t quite
happen today. As the old phrase goes, “the best-laid plans of mice
and men are completely different kinds of plans altogether. Very
different creatures, those two.”

But
it’s not a total wash. Our next show should feature spine-tingling
adventure stories about today’s desert battles! We have 

 to do, us. So much to
explore and understand. So much to make here in our great desert
otherworld.

Say,
we really do need a name for this place. Things without names don’t
really exist. So I’m going to call this…well, I’m going to call it
Desert Bluffs! Desert Bluffs was the name of my hometown, and by
naming it Desert Bluffs, this place becomes my 


hometown! We are in my home!! We are in Desert Bluffs, no matter
where we are in space or time. What is a town but a name, right?

Until
next time, New Desert – Oh. It looks like Carlos left behind that
letter he was supposed to hand deliver. I’d better not read it.

Nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnno.
Better not.

Until
next time, New Desert Bluffs. Until next time.

[Sound
of Kevin opening the letter]

Oh. Oh
no! This is so sad!

No. I
don’t like this. I am sad.

Episode 70B - Review


If
you love something, set it free. If
it doesn’t come back, it probably died of sadness because it 


you loved it.

Welcome
to Night Vale.

It’s
difficult to say goodbye to your hometown. Difficult indeed. We’ll
get to all of that soon, but first we bring you the item of, I’m
sure, most interest to all of you: a review of last night’s opera.
The inaugural performance of the New Old Night Vale Opera House, a
tribute to the building which once stood proudly in this town for
decades before succumbing, 20 years ago, to an unchecked puppy
infestation.

The
New Old Opera House is luxurious and stylish. I had no idea what
opera was until last night, so my expectations for the building were
pretty low. I mean, I don’t know what 


think opera is; I was expecting something like fenced-in yards
occupied full of filthy straw, occupied by hundreds of heavily
drugged wolves.

But it
turns out that opera houses look nothing like petting zoos. This
place had a chandelier, and velvet seats, and lush red curtains, and
a snack bar, 


people wearing just the fanciest clothes you could imagine. Tuxedos,
and ball gowns, and balaclavas, and shin guards.

Old
Woman Josie and all of her tall winged friends who go by the name
Erika and who 

 to
be angels, were there. They were the driving force behind the
building of the New Old Opera House. It was only fitting, then, that
before the performance, Josie gave a toast from the stage. She
toasted opera, and Night Vale, and all of the donors who made the
Opera House possible.

Finally,
she toasted old friends. And when she did, she looked at me and
grinned.

I
blushed, and looked down at my shoes – which were tasteful sponge
clogs that matched my tights perfectly.

OK,
so, I’m sure you’re asking the same question I’ve been asking for
years: what even 


opera? I don’t have any training in opera, but I’ll do my best to
describe it. Basically, opera is kind of like theater, but they don’t
raise the curtain all the way up. So you only can see feet shuffling
about while you hear high pitched wailing and combustion engines.

This
particular opera was called “Amara.” It was composed and
conducted and 


performed by acting legend Lee Marvin. It was about a young girl who
goes on some kind of…adventure? It wasn’t clear, because opera is
super-interactive and entirely nonlinear. Sometimes people from the
audience throw old fruit at the stage, and then the actors jump into
the audience to wrestle these people. Audience members are encouraged
to yell out things they think the performers should do, and
performers often vocalize their distaste for the audience.

At one
point in the first act I shouted, “Sing a song about old love and
new horizons, about wanderlust and uncertainty!” and then a member
of the chorus spat at me. And moments later I found someone
handcuffed me to my armrest. It was super fun!

They
did raise the curtain all the way once, revealing a detailed set of a
storm-tossed ocean, upon which a great ship lurched skyward atop a
curling monstrous wave. The details of the painting and the carpentry
were flawless. I’ve never been in such awe of a stage set as I was
then. But I think the stage manager recognized the error in allowing
the audience to see this, and quickly lowered the curtain to just a
couple of feet off the floor.

I
didn’t recognize most of the performers because they kept the curtain
so low, and the stage lights so dim, but I did note that Frank Chen
was in the cast, looking every inch the normal human with – I can
only assume – a normal number of heads.

At the
start of the second act, I sensed a blurry motion in my periphery. I
felt a cold touch on my chained hand.

“Nice
handcuffs,” a whisper said. “Looks like you won’t be able to save
your friend Dana tonight.”

I was
terrified, yes, but like everyone I’m 


terrified. I also felt rage. Rage at the Faceless Old Woman
whispering behind me. Had she handcuffed me so that I could not save
my former intern, my former friend, my current mayor, Dana Cardinal
from whatever evil deeds were coming her way?

I
looked up at Mayor Cardinal in her loge box. She was staring straight
at the stage, focused and stony. And despite all my anger at my old
friend – that she had presumably bought me at a Sheriff’s Secret
Police auction last year, and had been using me for the last several
months against my will to protect herself against the five-headed
dragon Hiram McDaniels and the Faceless Old Woman – despite all
that, I looked at Dana’s face, hoping she would see me pleading for
her safety.

I want
to trust and love my friend, and for that moment, I did. And I was
sorry that the Faceless Old Woman had restrained me so that I could
not help her…even if, this time, I had wanted to.

I
followed the mayor’s gaze toward the stage. The house lights dimmed,
and the curtain split open. I saw normal human Frank Chen center
stage, each of his heads huffing and snarling, preparing for his
aria.

As an
aside, I am told this was to be opera’s first-ever quintet aria, but
honestly, I don’t know what either of those words even mean.

Actually,
only 

 of Frank’s
heads were snarling: the gold, green, gray, and blue ones. But his
purple head was looking right at me. And I felt something familiar,
but…at the same time, something that I didn’t understand. My hand
strained against its chain, but there was nothing I could do.

As the
orchestra – led by and comprised entirely of Lee Marvin and a slide
whistle – swelled, and Frank Chen continued to belch fire and hiss,
we all knew something was wrong. I mean, it’s possible that an aria
is just a bunch of roars and flames – I’m no expert – but it
didn’t seem likely. Frank Chen then tore off his bow tie, and in
doing so revealed he was not five foot, eight inch middle-aged human
Frank Chen 

, but
Hiram McDaniels, an 18 foot tall five-headed dragon!

Hiram
leapt into the air above the orchestra seats. I heard a muffled
scream from above. I looked to the mezzanine and saw Trish Hidge,
deputy assistant to Mayor Cardinal, trying to quickly escort the
mayor away…but it was too late. I caught a brief glimpse of someone
I had never seen before. Or, had never seen in my waking life. She
was standing just behind Trish and Mayor Cardinal. It was a woman I
had once seen in a dream. In my dream she had been underwater, among
coral, young and whispering and faceless. And now, in 


world, that is very likely 


just a dream, I saw this same woman. She was old, and shouting, and
faceless.

Hiram
flew up, past the chandelier, toward Dana in the mezzanine, all of
his heads focused on their target, teeth bared and angry…except the
purple head, which was twisted away, as though trying – with just
its neck – to deflect the course of its body.

At
that moment, I felt myself rising against my will. There I was, lot
number 37, being pulled into use once more. I looked up at Dana, but
she was not looking back at me at all. She was preparing to defend
herself, alone.

And
then everything went black.

I saw
nothing. Felt nothing. I was nowhere.

I
heard a voice. It was…whiny, and panicked. It told me it was sorry
to keep using me, that it had bought me at an auction two years back
just in case.

“You
never know what could happen. Nothing can be trusted.”

The
voice told me it especially didn’t trust the other heads it shares a
body with, who are always 

,
always 

.
Plus, it was tired of having to commit violent crimes, and
consistently living life on the run.

The
voice just wanted to settle down. Maybe start a family.

“Night
Vale’s such a nice town, don’t you think?” the voice asked me.

And I
asked, “Hiram? Is that you?”

And
the voice said, “Not 


of Hiram. Most people call me Purple Head, but I prefer Violet.”

“Why
me?” I asked.

Violet
said, “One head couldn’t work against four. I’ve known that a long
time. I needed another body. Lot 37 was put up for sale, and the
other heads were distracted by Lot 38 (a normal human disguise), so I
bought you.”

Now, I
was furious, of course. I told Violet that I thought Dana had been
doing this the whole time. I 


her over and over! “I have lost a friend because of 

,
Violet,” I said, “and do you have any idea what it’s like, to
have you control me in this way?”

“Yes,”
Violet said. “I only have one-fifth control over my own body. This
is my life all of the time, carried along against my will by the
foolish plans of those closest to me, betrayed by my own limbs, by
the beating of my own heart. But…I 


sorry. I really am.”

“You
need to fight your own fights,” I said.

“I
will, Cecil,” Violet said. “I am giving you back Lot 37. I
transfer ownership back to you. You are yours once again. And
whatever else happens tonight, I’m sorry.”

“Well,
you should be,” I said.

“But,”
Violet said, “don’t blame me for losing your friendship with Dana.
You were the one who didn’t trust her. That was you, and only you.”

Then
his voice was gone.

I woke
up on the floor of the opera house, which was dark and empty. I was
still handcuffed to a scorched armrest that had been completely
burned off of the chair itself. Most seats and wall sconces had been
heavily scorched and destroyed. I wasn’t sure if it was Hiram who did
that, or…maybe that’s just the standard aftermath of opera.

I
walked outside to the curb, watching the rain in the streetlights. I
saw the drops flickering in a puddle below.

I do
not like reflections that flicker.

I
thought of my mother for the first time in a long time. Missed her.
And, same word, different meaning, I missed the opera. And the after
party, too. And, same word, 


meanings: I miss my friend Dana. I wish I could have…saved her.

She
was gone, and I failed her. No one was around to help with the weight
of my guilt, or to unchain me from the armrest.

A huge
storm was coming through. A rare weather event for the desert. Let’s
have a report on that night’s weather now.

[“

”
by 

]

The
storm passed and I began my walk home – my clothes soaked, my clogs
now several sizes larger. The streets were quiet. And I took it all
in, knowing these were my final days in Night Vale, certain I had
made the right decision.

Then I
smelled the sandy earth, wet from the storm, and saw the buildings of
what would soon no longer be my town washed clean by the driven rain,
and I wavered in my certainty.

Lost
in thought, I failed to hear the car tires on the slick concrete, or
see the headlights swinging my shadow across the sidewalk. I heard,
“Cecil, get in!” and, like any citizen of Night Vale when ordered
to get into an ominous unmarked car, I obeyed without thinking.

Inside
the black stretch limo, impossibly large inside, were dozens of opera
supporters and local celebrities. Old Woman Josie and her tall winged
friends named Erika were there. Waiters passed around hors d'oeuvres
and champagne. I hadn’t missed the after party after all.

My
sister Abby and her husband Steve and my niece Janice were there.

Janice
threw her arms around my waist and said, “Uncle Cecil, I love the
opera so much, thanks for the tickets! I love the part where the
dragon flew out over the audience like 


and then it started fighting itself, and the purple head starting
biting the other heads, and it was really funny! Then, it flew away,
out of the theater, and there was a lot of fire, and I thought I saw
an old lady with no face ran out too, and– and the mayor was saved,
and Mr. Lee Marvin sang a beautiful song about all the animals we can
see using mirrors, and then it was over! And everyone cheered! And
opera is 

! Mom
said you were moving away. Why are you moving away, Uncle Cecil?
Uncle Carlos says you don’t have to move if you don’t want to! Will
you still come to my birthday party?”

Janice
continued chattering, but…I was dizzy at the name she had just
said. I interrupted her.

“Carlos?
Janice, did you say Carlos?”

“Duh!
He’s right over there, Uncle Cecil!” she said.

I
turned, and I saw him. And he was already looking at me.

And I
started to say, “…”

And 


started to say, “…”

And
then we just hugged. So tightly.

And in
my ear, Carlos said, “Sorry I missed the opera. I had to let Kevin
know I was returning home, and staying there.”

And I
jerked my head back and said, “Staying 

?”

And
Carlos said, “This is your home. You belong here.”

Then
he said, “This is also 


home. I belong here.”

“Carlos,
anywhere we’re together is home,” I said. And I repeated it. And
repeated it. And I said, “But Carlos, is Night Vale where we should
live? Is Night Vale even worth living 

?”

Carlos
held my shoulder and said, “Night Vale is just a name, Cecil. Night
Vale is just the name for an area where everyone you love lives,”
he said. “Don’t worry about the name. Worry about the 

,”
he said.

Over
Carlos’ shoulder I saw Dana, my old intern and current mayor in the
crowd. She looked at me, but did not smile. I…struggled to meet her
eyes, which were wary and gracious. Her deputy Trish Hidge circled
behind me and removed the handcuff from my wrist with a small key she
had pulled from her jacket pocket.

“Sorry
we had to do that,” Trish said, “but we wanted you to be safe, to
not have your body willed by some other force into a fight you were
very clear you wanted no part in. We had to physically hold you out
of the way so that we could fight this fight on our own.”

From
across the impossibly large car, Dana winked and finally smiled.

I
mouthed, “

”
and she did not respond, but, still winking a slow strange wink, she
receded into the crowd like a distant walker into mist.

At the
end of the night, the car dropped Carlos and me back home and…I
don’t think we slept the whole night! Talking about our new old life
together, all these memories and plans! We are back together in our
home, and I am back with you in my studio.

My
final show as host of Night Vale Community Radio was to be a review
of an opera. And that’s still true…someday. But it won’t be this
opera.

Carlos
and I are staying in Night Vale for now. I will be back on the air
with you again very soon with more news, and more stories…with more
opera.

I
think Carlos is right. Night Vale isn’t a single unified 


that can love, or be loved. It’s just the name, slapped onto a set of
borders and rules that some old bureaucrats wearing soft meat crowns
devised centuries ago. But they don’t live here anymore! 


do!


do.

And I
can make it worth it. I can’t just leave it, I have to 


it! Live it, and make it better! For myself, for Carlos! For my
friends. For Abby, and Steve, and Janice, for Old Woman Josie and all
of the Erikas. For Dana. And for you, listeners.

We
will, together, celebrate another homecoming game. We will, together,
survive another street cleaning. We will, together…well, we will
see.

I
can’t promise I’ll 


leave you. No one can promise that. But until that moment, let’s keep
working on this town, this collective idea, this Night Vale. Whatever
we want that name to mean, we can always start over if we have to.
Rededicate ourselves. Do it 

.

To
start with, the Secret Police have, once again, jailed Hiram
McDaniels for his numerous crimes against his fellow citizens.
Although, in recognition of the Violet Head’s valiant struggle
against the other heads and his own contested body, they’ve put a
small hole in the wall that Violet can stick through and be outside
of the jail walls, since technically he is not under arrest.

Stay
tuned next for happenstance reconstructed into narrative, and falsely
interpreted as having significance.

And as


, goodnight,
Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 71 - The Registry of Middle School Crushes


I trip the light fantastic, and then I
offer to help it up. And when the light fantastic is halfway up I let
go, and it falls again. Me and the light fantastic do not get along
at all.

Welcome to Night Vale.

To start us off, a follow-up on a
recent story:

Local ne'er-do-well and five-headed
dragon Hiram McDaniels will be brought to trial for his attempts to
assassinate Mayor Cardinal and take over Night Vale’s city
government. This trial is already being referred to as the “trial
of the century.” And, indeed, could be referred to as the “trial
of all time,” because Night Vale has never had a trial before.

Judicial matters are usually handled
directly by the Secret Police, whose judgment is above question –
even when it’s really bad and obviously wrong – or, in some extreme
cases, handled by the City Council itself, who might relegate the
wrongdoer to detention in the abandoned mine shaft outside of town,
or might just eat the wrongdoer. It depends on whether the City
Council has had a heavy lunch.

But Hiram McDaniels is 

, and
a dragon, so the City Council and the Secret Police are both
declining to get too close to him. As a result, for the first time
ever, we will have a fair and open trial here in Night Vale in front
of a jury of Hiram’s peers.

Speaking of which, Night Vale invites
any dragons to come down to the courthouse to serve as his peers.
Failing that, any multi-headed beings are welcome – although I
can’t immediately think of any of those except obviously deer, and
deer can’t take part in juries because of their profound belief in
egalitarian anarchism.

Pamela Winchell, former Night Vale
mayor and current director of emergency press conferences, will serve
as the prosecuting attorney, and Hiram’s gold head will be acting in
his own defense – as well as the defense of the other three heads
accused. His fifth head, the violet one, who had secretly been
working to stop the other heads, is not charged, and is expected to
take the witness stand against his same-body brethren.

Updates on this exciting legal story
will continue as we all try to figure out what “law” means
outside of the context of the despotic control of shadowy government
forces.

And now, listeners, from matters of
news to matters of personal urgency. I present to you: A Heist.

Here is the mission: to retrieve a
top-secret document.

Here are the players:

This, then, is the team. Here, then, is
the target:

City Hall. Specifically, the Hall of
Public Records – one of the most secure and dangerous places in
Night Vale, where all public information is kept hidden from a public
that might misuse it. Few have gone in and survived. No one has ever
managed to remove – or even view – a single document from it.

So, why are we trying? Why risk our
lives to do what is, by all accounts, impossible?

Because within that hall of records is
the Registry of Middle School Crushes, a ledger that documents every
slight swoon of our young citizens’ love-sick hearts. This registry,
like all municipal documents, is constantly updated via invasive
satellite mind-scanning. Janice wants us to retrieve the Registry of
Middle School Crushes and destroy it. I will not ask why. We don’t


 to ask why. We know that
a family member is in need, and we act accordingly.

The plan?
Hahahahahaha…but that would give it away.

More soon, whether
the powers that be like it or not.

First, a word from
our sponsors.

Today’s
sponsor is Venom Box, the subscription service that sends you a box
of venomous creatures every month. Last month’s theme was “Hidden,
But Deadly.” And those who survived that will 


this month’s theme: “Fanged and Impossibly Quick.”

Venom Box has been
sending me samples and, boy! Have I almost died! I have almost
died…a lot!

They
are very dangerous, these boxes. Each individually curated Venom Box
is literally a box of toxic and aggressive creatures. That’s…what
they are. It’s not even a 


box; it’s a hastily-constructed 


box! Often, the creatures escape before you can open the Venom Box.
The only thing worse than opening a box to find venomous creatures
inside, is opening a box that is 


to have venomous creatures inside…and instead, finding nothing.
Then, looking around your home, feeling [

]
is that a tickle on your toe? You were imagining that, 

?

To get a free
sample, just do nothing. Or, try to prevent it. Actively try to keep
the Venom Box out, it doesn’t matter. Whatever you do, you are
subscribed to Venom Box every month from here on out.

Good luck!

This has been a
word from our sponsors.

And now, traffic.

A woman walks into
a bar. Presumably, she did not just appear there. Presumably she
opened the door from the outside and entered it. Presumably she drove
to the bar. Presumably she had obtained the car she used to drive to
the bar somewhere, presumably with money. Presumably she had received
that money somehow. She presumably had spent days, months, even years
before this moment. Presumably she was born at some point, to a
mother – presumably. Presumably she was a child once. There had
been years spent in which she could not completely feed herself.
There were years in which she was smaller, and stayed all day in
rooms where adults taught her to be similar adults to the adults they
were. There was a first kiss, nights spent in terror of the nights to
come, the first vestiges of independence, moving out, finding a job,
a decision – at some point – to go to the bar. Presumably.

“Can I have a
drink?” she said to the bartender.

“Oh, I’m sorry,”
said the bartender. “This is the end of my shift. Ed will be out in
a moment and he’ll be able to help you.”

The
bartender left the bar. Presumably he opened the door. Presumably he
got into a car. Presumably he drove home, the radio on and playing
him through the soft-focus darkness of hot night. Presumably he had a
bed somewhere, got into it, slept, and – presumably – dreamed.
Presumably he grew older, day by day, and looked at each day as a
missed opportunity to live a life that was in no way better than the
life he was living, but just different. Presumably he edged toward
death, fearing losing what he had, regretting ever attaining it.
There was a last kiss, everything was forgotten, but in pieces, and
in the most painful order. New things were learned slowly, and in the
least helpful order. A basket of fruit indicating a sentiment too
weak, communicated too late, to a person who was already gone.
Presumably.

This has been
traffic.

Back to the main
event. Plans run apace for our heist from the City Hall Public
Records room. The obstacles are grave, and myriad.

First, there was
simply getting past the guard at the door of City Hall. Well, the
guard doesn’t stop anyone, so as I said, it’s…getting past is
pretty simple.

Then, there is
avoiding the City Council, who lurk within City Hall. A many-form
municipal entity, waiting for citizens to civically devour. You will
have to tread carefully to avoid it.

Then,
there are the stairs to the basement where the records are kept.
These are 


dangerous. Thousands of people die falling down stairs every year,
so…we will have to take care not to trip.

Beyond that is the
thick vault door, combination unknown, immune to detonation or heat.
Rumor has it that the door to the records room could survive a
nuclear explosion. Rumor has it that it already has.

Past the door,
information becomes more piecemeal. Rumor becomes our only guide.
There is, apparently, a grid of lasers – carefully calibrated so as
to look mesmerizing, and cause an intruder to stop and watch them,
thus failing to complete her mission.

There are pressure
sensors in the floor, heat sensors in the hall, thought sensors in
all of our brains.

The
security is diabolical. But, we have devised a plan past all of it.
Which, again, I can’t tell you. I’m sorry. Saying the plan on the
radio would make it tricky to successfully perform it without being
caught. But it’s 


good. I promise.

We will make sure
Janice gets the Registry of Middle School Crushes so she can destroy
it. We just will never be able to tell you how.

And now, the answer
to last week’s audio “Spot the Differences” quiz. Of course, the
two audio scenes we set for you were quite similar. Perhaps, even, at
an aural glance, identical. But there were eight specific
differences. Did you spot them all? Let’s find out! Here were the
differences:

How
did you do? If you missed any, don’t worry. The Secret Police will be
arriving soon to take you to a reeducation camp. And after that, you
definitely won’t be messing up any more puzzles, or messing up 


– or 

 anything
– ever again.

Oh, I
just can’t resist! Our brilliant plan is 


brilliant not to share. I mean, it doesn’t even matter that much, I
guess, because the plan is already in motion. What could the powers
that be possibly do?

So, first, Old
Woman Josie had her beings (who cannot legally be called angels) hack
the thought sensors and the mind-scanning satellites so that instead
of playing our current thoughts, they play a loop of thoughts about
which sandwich place is our favorite (obviously, the Mario’s Very
Authentic Italian Ice Cream sub sandwich place at the
mall…obviously).

Then Abby, Steve,
and Carlos all simply walked past the guard. Again, the guard doesn’t
stop anyone. Simple.

Abby
used a series of mirrors and clip lights in the doorway to City
Council chambers to create the 


of an empty hallway for the monstrous municipal members within, thus
allowing the wonderful Carlos and the foolish…ly brave Steve to go
down the stairs, carefully, and without tripping.

Those
two, and those two alone, entered the basement. There, Carlos used a
mathematical formula that he had arrived at scientifically to deduce
the combination of the great vault door. Once inside, of course,
Carlos would become instantly fascinated by the laser grid,
determined to understand it. Which is why it was 


important job to keep him focused and moving.

They then put on
harnesses, which Janice had spent the last several weeks making from
a home cat burglar kit she got as a prize in a box of Honey Nut
Flakey-Os, and which she had lined with bags of frozen peas to throw
off the heat sensors. And that is where they are now, dear listeners.
Creeping ever closer to the Registry of Middle School Crushes, and to
a triumphant end to a triumphant plan.

Nothing can…oh,
no! Oh, no! Somehow it seems that the City Council has discovered the
plan! I don’t know how that could have happened! Steve and Carlos are
still in the basement! They’re still in danger! Still right behind
the closed vault door! Where can they run? How can they hide?

I will try to sort
out what to do. And in the meantime, I must take you to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

We have returned,
listeners, to a heist complete.

This was not a
heist of action, at all. It was not a heist of diamond-tipped drills
or advanced electronics, no. This was a heist of words. A heist of
fiction. It was a heist of storytelling, and it was magnificent. For
there was no hacking by Josie and her friends, no mirror held by
Abby, no absurd mathematical formula devised by Carlos, and no Steve.
Thank God, no Steve.

There
was none of that. Carlos, Old Woman Josie, Abby…and Steve…are
safe at home – having never left their beds in this warm, still
night. I created their action, I created their danger, with my words.
And I delivered that danger to you. That was the entire plan. All of
it. It was me, here at this microphone, telling you a story. A story
about a successful entrance to the well-protected vault of the 

 hahaha.

And, in response to
my story, the City Council rushed to the records hall, flung open the
vault door, deactivated the sensors and alarms, and charged in to
capture Steve and Carlos – but those two were, of course, not there
to be captured.

The
only person who 


there, having avoided the danger of the stairs by safely taking the
ADA-compliant elevator down, and having waited, patiently, in the
shadows for the City Council to rush by enraged, then open the door
of the vault 

 her,
was a very clever 11 year-old in a stealth wheelchair of her own
design.

She
waited. And when they had passed, she followed quietly after them.
And while they searched, roaring for intruders that weren’t there,
she slipped the Registry of Middle School Crushes from its shelf,
rolled herself back to the elevator, and was gone before the Council
had even an 


that they were chasing only figments of my imagination.

It was, despite all
of my misleading words, a two-person heist. An uncle (who can tell
one hell of a story), and a niece (who can come up with one hell of a
plan).

Janice took the
registry out into the Scrublands. And there, in an arroyo that has
not seen water in many years, she lit it on fire and watched the
smoke pass up through the evergreen leaves of the Joshua trees.

I don’t need to
know why she wanted it destroyed, although perhaps I could guess. But
I won’t guess. I only know that she needed my help, and so I helped
her.

Before everything,
before even humans, there were stories. A creature at a fire
conjuring a world with nothing but its voice and a listener’s
imagination. And now, me, and thousands like me, in little booths and
rooms and mics and screens all over the world, doing the same for a
family of listeners, connected as all families are, primarily by the
stories we tell each other.

And after, after
fire, and death, or whatever happens next, after the wiping clean or
the gradual decay, after the after…when there are only a few
creatures left, there will be one at a fire, telling a story to what
family it has left. It was the first thing, and it will be the last.

Stay tuned next for
more stories being told to you all of the time – whether you are
aware of them or not.

And from whatever
fiction it is that we happen to be living together tonight,
goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

your

Episode 72 - Well of Night


Kill it with kindness. And if that
fails, kill it with sharp sticks or knives.

Welcome to Night Vale.

[

]
I…I didn’t sleep well last night. I imagine 


of you slept well last night, what with all the chanting, and
stomping? I could see from my window a stark, white V, opening
skyward, just to the south of our apartment, with its inverted cone,
long shadows cutting in and out, a vertical static. I could hear a
distant repeated chant.

“Bom-bom-bom!
Bom-bom-bom!”

Something
like that.

Again,
that’s not so unusual. When you live in a city long enough, you get
used to the nighttime noise of car alarms, or howls of stray cats, or
the occasional carolers crouching by your front door singing about
some new god they invented in a night club. It’s basic urban life.

But
this chant was different. I first heard only the shouts of one or two
people.

“Ba-da-bah!
Ba-da-bah!”

Whatever
the chant was.

I
figured they were simply college kids who discovered some dinosaur
bones, which I understand is a thing college kids are into these
days.

Carlos
was able to sleep through the sounds. He can sleep through anything –
alarm clocks, heavy construction, even that godawful screeching the
sunrise makes – but I was in and out of light sleep all night! By
just before dawn, the handful of chanters had grown to a large crowd.

What
was that chant?

“Bah-bah-bah!
Wah-wah-wah!”

I
couldn’t tell, but there must’ve been 


of them! Well, hopefully they keep it down tonight.

Let’s
have a look now at the Community Calendar.

Wednesday
night, the staff of Dark Owl Records will be holding a seance to try
to reach the ghost of Taylor Swift. They’ll be lighting candles and
holding hands and playing Swift’s newest album, “1879,” which was
named after the year she was born into a human body. For the
fifteenth time.

Record
shop owner Michelle Nguyen says it’s important that they get a hold
of Swift’s ghost so they can ask her detailed questions about what
kind of music she was into back then, because…well, the Dark Owl
staff is running out of music that no one else has heard of. They
want to find music that no longer exists, so they can get into 

.

Nguyen
also wants to trash-talk Emil Burliner, who was Swift’s ex-boyfriend
and who 

 stole
Swift’s idea to invent the gramophone.

“He
hated music,” Nguyen said. “He had some pretty fly ties, so
like…I could see him inventing a pocket square, but not a
turntable. Ugh! Did I just use the word ‘fly?'” Nguyen added.

The
seance will be from 10:00pm to 2:00am, and there will be a live DJ,
snacks, whispering, and darkness.

Thursday
afternoon, the Night Vale Community Players will hold auditions for
their fall production of David Mamet’s “Oleanna.” Director
Chandra Richardson wants to take a fresh approach to this
controversial play, stating that she plans on removing all of the
words and stage directions. Instead, simply presenting a stage full
of actors juggling and/or eating things like candles, and fruit, and
rodents. Richardson says that the original 1992 play took a 


approach to the broad topics of gender and power, and she wants to
find a more challenging 


approach to this difficult material.

“Talking
in English directly about a subject is a very 1990s thing to do. I
think we can update this story by stripping it of its language and
narrative, and just juggling, and eating things,” Richardson said.

Hopeful
actors should meet at 2:00pm at the Rec Center, and bring their own
candles and rodents. Fruit will be provided. No previous acting
experience or understanding of any specific language is necessary.

Friday
night is the Night Vale Alive Fireworks Spectacular, put on each
month by a Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency. Representatives
for the event, speaking through 


representatives, who we met in disguise, using code names, in an
undisclosed location, said this month’s fireworks spectacular
promises to be the largest and most exciting of the year.

“You
won’t want to miss it!” the representative whispered from behind a
granite-colored Dodge Grand Caravan. “But unfortunately,” the
representative added, “you 


have to miss it, because it is a covert and secret fireworks show.
Everyone must stay inside. And close all doors. And window
coverings.”

So,
prepare a picnic and gather the family into the panic room this
Friday night!

Saturday
is already over before it’s even begun. Where does the time go?

Oh,
that’s not even a metaphor. This coming Saturday ended weeks ago, but
no one knows where it went. Or why.

An
update on last evening’s weird lights and chanting:

I’m
getting word that the gathering of chanters was down by the old well
in the south of town. Now, of course, we all know the old well. It’s
that well that inexplicably appeared a few days ago. We call it the
“old well” because it’s been a 


this week, what with getting back from vacation, and returning to
work, and school. Plus, it’s been super hot here this August. We’re
all just kind of…over it. So, like, two or three days feels like


! That well’s been
there 

!

Apparently
a couple of people noticed that, after sunset, the well emanates a
bright light. As they approached the well, there eyes and hair
disappeared. And they began whispering, “well of night!” to
passersby. They kept repeating the whisper, “well of night,” to
anyone who would listen, but given that it is bad luck to acknowledge
a stranger, most people hurried by without paying too close
attention.

Eventually,
someone pulled their car over near the well, and asked the whisperers
for directions to Chipotle. The whisperers replied, “well of
night.” And in a blink, the car was gone. And the driver was
standing next to the two whisperers, equally eyeless. Equally
hairless. All three of them shouting, “Well of life! Well of life!”

The
three of them then did a series of moderate calisthenics, where they
took large skipping steps, bringing their knees up to their chests,
and twirling their arms as straight sticks in conflicting circles
above their heads.

Or,
maybe, this 


calisthenics, but ritual dancing. Not sure. Both are important parts
of a solid daily health regimen.

More
on this as it develops, but first, a look at today’s traffic.

There’s
an accident on Galloway Road, beneath the overpass of Route 800.
Everyone is 

 sorry
about what happened. They didn’t mean for it to turn out like this.
They didn’t mean for anything to turn out like it did. It was totally
an accident, and everyone apologizes profusely. Can you 


to understand how something like this could happen to anyone? Can you


 to forgive them?
Can you?

Emergency
crews are on hand to help clear debris and to offer hugs and empathy
to all those affected directly and indirectly.

Moving
on, there’s congestion in downtown right now because of construction,
narrowing Somerset down to a single lane. The Sheriff’s Secret Police
has sent traffic cops down there to shout, and scowl, and point.
Which has helped considerably.

Oh,
it’s actually made the traffic worse, but everyone in the traffic
feels

stronger, more
emotionally prepared to deal with adversity than they were before
getting in their cars.

Tunnels
and bridges are completely clear this hour, as they are most hours,
because they’re either totally secret or off-limits to public use.
But today, they’re especially clear of even the black sedans, armored
vehicles, and windowless vans that normally clog those roadways.

Listeners,
the Night Vale Highway Department would like to remind you to buckle
up. Then, to hunker down. Then, to forget 

.
Then, to 


everything. Then, to open your eyes to what’s 


going on. Don’t you see what’s 


going on? The Highway Department would like to call you all sheeple.

“Sheeple,”
they scowl as they roll their eyes.

This
has been a public service announcement from the Night Vale Highway
Department.

Here
now with a message from today’s sponsor is Deb, a sentient patch of
haze.

Hi,
Deb!


Hi, human broadcaster! Hello, mortal listeners. It’s back-to-school
time again, and the kids still need new clothes, bags, lunches,
falconry gear, rappelling equipment, and other basic school supplies.
So much stuff! Where will you find time to go to all of those stores?

Well,
you don’t have to go to a bunch of 


stores, you only need one store: Jo-Ann Fabrics.


Cool! I thought, uh, Jo-Ann Fabrics only sold fabrics!


That’s simply untrue. Why would you even say that?


Well, I just assumed from the name that Jo-Ann 


would…


Stop talking!

Jo-Ann
Fabrics welcomes any parent too overwhelmed by school, or a life, or
parenthood, or whatever. Anything. Maybe you’re afraid of flying, and
you have to get on a plane soon. The threat is real, you know.


I think planes are actually much safer than they used to…


Oh my God, Cecil! Can we have a conversation for once?


You– You– You're– You’re right. You’re right. I’m sorry, Deb.
Uh, I mean, the thing is, Jo-Ann Fabrics does fabrics better than
anyone, so…a creative person could make clothes, and bags, and all
kinds of stuff for their…kids?


You’re obsessed with fabrics!


Well…


Fine. Go on about your fabrics. What do I care about your petty human
concerns?


Ooh! Carlos bought a nice batik at Jo-Ann’s recently. It’s got,
umm…


You don’t know what batik is.


I don’t.


Jo-Ann Fabrics.


Aah! What the heck 


that?


I– I– don’t know! I– I– I’ve never heard that voice before!


For all you back-to-school needs.


Oh my God! That’s really weird.


Yeah, it is!


Joooooooooooo-Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaannnnnnnnnnnnn’s….


I’m outta here!


Faaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa…


O– OK, uh, bye, Deb.


…aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaabrrrrics.


Listeners, I’m just getting word that, right this moment, the old
well has begun to cast a ray of darkness upward.

As the
sun reached its apex, darkness cut across the bright day in a thin,
long V. The chanters, whose numbers have apparently grown into the
high hundreds, are doing their strange dance, or exercise, around the
well, and chanting.

More
and more are joining this throng. I’m being told that all of their
eyes are completely overgrown with skin, and that their hair doesn’t
actually fall out. Apparently each hair retreats rapidly back into
their heads like a scared worm.

Uh, I
can see from my studio that tall funnel of black against the blue
sky, and…and I can faintly hear the chanting.

There
it is.

“Bah-bah-bah!
Bah-wah-wah!”

That’s
it! That is the chanting I heard last night.

“Well
of night! Well of life! Well of night! Well of life!”

Uh,
listeners, I can feel…the power of the chant. I– I– I– I can
feel my hair shortening, and– and re-entering my scalp. Oh, that
feels so…uh, so…

!

Well
of night! Well of life!

My–
my eyes are being covered in skin, but suddenly, I can see 

! More than I ever thought
possible! I must go to this well! With the well, I will see
everything!

Well
of night! Well of life! Well of night! Well of life! Well of night!

[

]

I
almost forgot. Here’s today’s weather.

Well
of night! Well of life! Well of night!

[

]

[“

” by 

]

Whoo!
Oh, wow! What fun that was, Night Vale! Oh, those “well of life”
people are wild, but so sweet!

I was
a bit nervous at first, because it’s been 


since I’ve been unwillingly inducted into a cult or a chanting
circle. I kind of thought I’d get there, and everyone would see how
out of practice I was, and boy…if you saw my kick steps, you’d know
I hadn’t done a jumping jack or prayer dance in forever.

But,
here comes old Cecil, with his hair withdrawn and his eyes covered in
flesh, ripe for the teasing, and they welcomed me without judgment or
hesitations. I wasn’t two steps into their circle before someone drew
blood from my neck, and everyone cheered…ah! What fun!

Hmm.

Then
someone else turned into a bird-like animal, a little furrier than a
normal bird, and we all followed it into the well. And down in that
well we all chanted until the bird person touched each of our
foreheads with its…bird-hoof? Or whatever birds call their feet?

And
some of us joined hands, and droned for a little bit. A few others
were watching baseball highlights, and a few more were enjoying the
hummus that someone had made.

Then,
I was back here – skin covering gone from my eyes, hair returned to
my scalp. The only thing different is that now I’m wearing a black
plastic poncho, cat ears, and yellow galoshes. This was definitely


 what I wore to
work, as I do not own yellow galoshes. They’re orange.

Oh, I
don’t know. These are kind of orange-ish. The lighting in my studio’s
weird. Maybe these boots 


mine.

Yeah.
I’m wearing exactly what I was wearing before, I think.

Anyway,
I met some 


people today, people I don’t remember anything about except the
feeling of love and acceptance I felt when I was with them. The–
their faces and bodies are blurs. But, for a short time, we all
chanted and did aerobics as one. We all mattered to each other, even
though we knew we didn’t matter at all. That seems wrong, I know, but
two conflicting things can exist simultaneously. And they 

!
And it was a great moment. One I will cherish. And, one I hope to
never have a gain, because it would be ruined by the unattainable
perfection of nostalgia.

Ahh,
the old well is gone now. In its place, a barely-noticeable bulge in
the earth, slightly pink, and soft to the touch. The Parks Department
has already erected a historic plaque to commemorate the well. The
plaque reads, “NOTHING UNUSUAL HAPPENED HERE OR WILL HAPPEN HERE.
YOU HAVE BEEN PHOTOGRAPHED READING THIS PLAQUE. WHAT WERE YOU HOPING
TO LEARN?”

Stay
tuned next for less of what you once were but more of what you think
you are.

Goodnight,
Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 73 - Triptych


What’s past is prologue; what’s future
is epilogue. This, right here, is maybe Chapter Four or Five.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Today’s top news is the screaming
vortex that opened up in the Night Vale Mall food court, completely
obliterating Ice Cream on a Stick, Lucy Tropic’s Fried Ice Cream, and
Mario’s Very Authentic Italian Ice Cream Sub Sandwiches, while doing
significant damage to American Teddy’s Ice Cream and Falafel.

American Teddy’s owner, Teddy Rajal,
said that this is the worst case of food court vortex that Night Vale
has seen in decades. And then he started hollering about the figures
he could see approaching from within the depths of the vortex, and…

Uh, I’m sorry, but…I’m getting some
weird feedback in my headphones. Um…just some slight technical
difficulties. Uhh, let me see if any of these wires are loose, and
I’ll get right back to this important story.

Um, oh, oh, OK. Uh, this one looks a
little loose; I’ll just wiggle it a bit…

 …started hopping up and
down joyously about the figures he could see approaching from within
the depths of…


Oh, no.


Hello? Is there a new friend on the air with me? This is Kevin in
Desert Bluffs.


We know who you are, Kevin. And another thing, just because you have
decided to name the other desert world that you are living in Desert
Bluffs, doesn’t make it the town of Desert Bluffs! That’s not how
names work! You couldn’t just start calling me Cecil 

 and have that suddenly
be my name.


Wow! You have so much passion! What a passionate individual you are!
Cecil 

,
is it?


Delightful. But to your, um, point, while where I live is definitely
a desert, I don’t know what would make it 


than your world, and I didn’t call this town Desert Bluffs, someone
much older and smarter than me, I’m sure, did that. And I’m glad they
did, because you couldn’t ask for a better home town than the Bluffs.


What a stupid name! Night Vale is way better name by any measure. For
instance, I like it more. By any measure.


That’s disappointing news. But I’ve never heard of any place called
“Night Vale.” I can’t imagine anyone disliking us here in Desert
Bluffs.


What do you mean, you’ve never heard of Night Vale? You and that evil
corporation StrexCorp tried to take over Night Vale 


recently.


StrexCorp? That faux friendly big business corporate monster? Don’t
talk to me about them. StrexCorp is 

!
Strex has been buying up a few of the businesses here in Desert
Bluffs, and I am 


happy about it. It makes me very unhappy to be unhappy. I’m much
happier being happy.

No.
Strex is against everything I believe in. Community, radio, community
radio, government intervention in the world, world government
intervention, secret police, and, of course, adorable cats!


I 


cats!


Who 


love cats? Heartless people, that’s who. Monsters without the
capacity for love. 

,
Cecil! That’s who doesn’t love cats.


Wow! You’re way nicer than I remembered.


I want to represent my town well. We’re decent people here. Good
people, sharing what we have: a watchful and oppressive government
keeping us safe from ourselves and others, children playing in the
schools, working hard in paramilitary clubs, and marching with crisp,
clean uniforms in parades.


Wait…your marching band has crisp, clean uniforms? But that hasn’t
been true since the…


Is it possible that somehow I am getting a radio signal from Desert
Bluffs all the way back from before the incident?


I…have no idea what any of that meant, but it sounded terrifying.


So, you don’t like Strex?


Of course not! But don’t worry, we won’t let them get too powerful.
Not here in the Bluffs.


Uh, please stop calling it that.


Sure. We’re all united on keeping StrexCorp just a small local
business here in the Bluffs.


It’s so 


to hear this version of you! Uh, I– I don’t know how this stray
signal ended up in this where and when, but…here it is! This “you”
before everything that happens that makes you…whatever you become.


Wow! Sounds like I have some fun stuff to look forward to once I kick
StrexCorp out of town. You know they’ve been trying to buy the radio
station? Can you imagine how 


that would be? They’d probably try to take me off the air, and
replace me with someone else. Or, worse, try to change my personality
completely. Oh! I would 


let that happen. I would 


Kevin. Kevin! I don’t think he can hear me anymore.


You don’t think 


can hear you anymore?


Oh, thank the lights in the sky, Kevin. You’re still there. I need to
warn you about Strex.


Warn me? About Strex? Why would you ever need to warn me about an
honest family business like Strex? Why, ever since they bought the
radio station years ago, I’ve learned 


about good business practices, and the value of hard work, and
individual responsibility, and smiling, and destroying the weak, and
eliminating the lazy, and smiling, and smiling, and…smiling.


Oh, no! Uh, I must be getting a radio signal from the much more
recent past.


The warping of linear time is exactly why I don’t trust radio, Cecil.
Especially community radio.


Kevin! What did you become?


I’m just a happy-go-lucky guy! It’s like they say: “Work hard, play
hard. Then work hard again, work hard more, work harder, keep working
hard, have you been working hard enough? Work harder if you want to
live! And then, 

,
play! Play very very very hard.”


Do you remember nothing of the 


that was? The 


that believed in good, healthy things like family, and a caring
totalitarian government?


I…oh! That’s a good question! What 


I remember?


I remember being a real grumpster, just a grouch and a half about
everything! Mister Frowny Face, I’d call myself now, if I were
talking to myself then.


But Strex bought out my radio station, and everything changed for the
better. Ha-ha! Can you believe it, I actually tried to stop them from
buying it! I tried very hard. I put my own body, this fragile thing,
in between the Strex representatives and the entrance to the
building, but they forced their way past me using ethically brutal
methods that left me forever physically changed. What a silly old hen
I was about all that!


Once Strex entered my life and showed me the power of the Smiling
God, why, nothing was the same for me ever again! I felt so much
happier. I did terrible things. I felt so much happier! I tore and
bit and growled…I felt so incredibly happy! My skin rent, blood
drops on the ceiling, someone’s throat hose in my hand! So
deliriously happy!


You know what? Thank you, Cecil, for bringing back such good memories
to me!


I am so, so glad that we drove StrexCorp out of Night Vale.


Oh, that’s not true, Cecil! We only just 


moving into Night Vale. Why, I believe we bought your radio station
only a couple weeks ago?


Oh, that’s because you’re talking to me from my past. Uh, the radio
signal got temporally misplaced, as sometimes happens…obviously. In
the time you’re speaking from, we haven’t led the secret revolution
against Strex yet.


So you’re saying that there will be a secret revolution against
Strex? Hang on, I’m jotting down a few things.


Uhh…um…n– nope! Uh, doesn’t sound right at all! Uh, I think
Strex has 


to be worried about, and should just be relaxed. And complacent.


Cecil! Ha ha ha! Your jokes delight me! He-haha! Just in case,
though, I’m going to send a new supervisor over to Night Vale. Daniel
is fresh off the line in one of our most efficient radio content
manufacturers. You’ll love him. Or, not you 


you 

,
I guess. Hah! Time is weird, isn’t it?


So weird.


Right? Anyway, Daniel will keep a close eye, and if anything seems
wrong, well…me and some StrexCorp executive or another will head
right over to set things right.


Well…umm…


Oh, don’t sound down about yourself! We all make mistakes, Cecil.
Except wonderfully productive StrexCorp, bursting at the seams at the
power of our awesome Smiling God! They don’t make mistakes. And that
is why we’re all grains of sand beneath their feet, the bended neck
at their throne. Isn’t language fun?


Kevin? I already kicked you off my station once. I’m not just going
to sit back while some errant radio waves from the past somehow put
you right back on here. Uh, uh, maybe if I wiggle the wire 

…


Lauren! Lauren, I just heard some interesting ideas about the future
on the– 


He seems to be gone.

Well,
I have some feelings about how that conversation went, but…Carlos
always tells me never to be down on myself about honest mistakes. Not
even 


paradoxical mistakes. He’s…always saying that.


I suppose, now that the technical difficulties are taken care of, I
should give you an update on the screaming vortex at the Night Vale
Mall. You won’t believe what…


Oh, no. Hello?


Cecil! Cecil, old friend! I’m here.


You sound different. When is this radio signal coming from? Uh, when
are you in your life?


I am very old. It has been many years since I last spoke to you. It’s
great to hear your voice again. It’s great to hear 


voice again.


I’ll admit, this is a little exciting. How is the future?


Desolate.


Okay, not what I expected, if I’m honest.


Oh, what StrexCorp and their Smiling God did to my wonderful little
town. What they did to me. I’m not myself anymore. I’m a smile, and a
twitch of the wrist. It has been years, Cecil. I’ve drifted away from
myself. Sometimes I am one me, and then again I am the other. What
they did to the sentient heat trapped temporarily in my body.


Oh, Kevin.


“Kevin.” Even my name is a strange figment. My tongue has
forgotten how to form the word. And once, I was so good with words!


Now I am an ancient thing, withered away by what they did to me all
those years ago. The power of the Smiling God is an endless flow. It
ebbs, like the tides. But, like the tides, it returns.


I think about what I could have been if I had never encountered
Strex. I imagine an entire life without them. It makes me happy. I
picture every detail, I try to live it in real time, but it is only a
slight, sweet fiction, and dissolves like sugar into water.

Oh,
Cecil! I wish you had known me before…before Strex. Before it all,
when I was just a dedicated community radio host like you. I wish you
had– 


But I 


know you, just now, Kevin! You sounded so excited about your town,
about your community…you were so happy! You were 

!


Kevin? Kevin? Kevin!


Listeners, I must find this Kevin again. But first, I must take you
to the weather.

[“

” by 

]


Cecil? Cecil?


Yes, Kevin? I'm– I’m here.


Oh, good, I got you back. Lost you there for a moment.


Anyway, as I was saying, Strex wants to buy the radio station, but
I’ll never let them. I’ll fight them off, Cecil! I’ll defeat them!


Ah, it’s 


version of you.


There is only me, Cecil. I’m the only 


there is! And we’re gearing up to push Strex out. Grandma Josephine,
my oldest friend in town (both meanings of the word), Mayor Pablo
Mitchell, Lawrence Levine out on the Edgertown Development, we have
all had our differences in the past, sure, and we will have our
differences again. We can’t always be happy. But we love each other.
We are a community.


And sure, that community has a beautiful name. I mean, can you think
of a single more beautiful name than Desert Bluffs?


Obviously, any name. Like, 

,


.


But it’s not about the beautiful, beautiful name. It’s about the
people. A town is its people, and the good and the bad of them. And
that is what we are going to fight for. That is what we are going to



for.


Hey, you’re from the future! That means you know how this turns out!


Well, uh, y– y– yes, I do.


So? Do I win? Does everything go just as right as right could be?


… Yes.


You win, Kevin. Everything goes right. You and community radio
prevail. And you are happier than ever. Desert Bluffs is a wonderful
town, and you live happily in it.


Oh! That’s such good news! Thanks for telling me. I can’t wait for
the future to come! Though, I have no choice but to wait, I suppose.
That’s how the future works, scientists keep insisting. Scientists
are the worst, right?


Well, I’m sure I’ll talk to you again at some point in my life.

Until
next time, Cecil. Until next ti– 


Goodbye, Kevin. I wish…


Does it matter?


Listeners, I…what do I say here? I– I wish things could have gone
differently, obviously. That is, obviously, what I wish. But they
didn’t.


What is the use of nostalgia for what didn’t happen when we have to
live with what did? Do I wish the food court at the mall still
existed? Sure. But it doesn’t.


Oh. Right. Sorry, uh, didn’t get a chance to update you. The whole
food court and everyone in it is totally gone now.


Anyway.


A counterpart that never was? A friend that I never had? A life that
was never lived. Could Night Vale and Desert Bluffs have been sister
towns? Was there a moment when that possibility drifted like breath
into frozen air until it wisped away into the cold truth of what
happened?


I don’t know. I heard only what you heard. I know only what you know.
Probably, you know more than me.


Stay tuned next for a feeling in your chest that will never quite sit
right with you again.


And goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 74 - Civic Changes


Remember that you
are a beautiful person. You’re a weird-looking tree, but you’re a
beautiful person.

Welcome to Night
Vale. 

Hello, listeners.
To start things off, I’ve been asked to re-read this brief notice:

The City Council
announces that no changes will be made to the Dog Park at the corner
of Earl and Somerset, near the Ralph’s. They would like to remind
everyone that dogs are not allowed in the Dog Park. People are not
allowed in the Dog Park.

It is possible you
will see Hooded Figures in the Dog Park.

The fence is
electrified and highly dangerous. Try not to look at the Dog Park,
and 

 do not look for any period of time at the
Hooded Figures. The Dog Park will not harm you. The Dog Park is as it
always was.

“Shut up about
the Dog Park,” the City Council added in handwriting to the bottom
of the notice.

This reminder of
city rules is apparently in response to recent complaints by Night
Vale citizens over the secretive and 

 nature of the
Dog Park. And these complaints are apparently in response to recent
activity by certain…community radio hosts, and…local scientists,
who surreptitiously used the Dog Park to go back and forth between
Night Vale and a desert otherworld, and then…announced said
activity to everyone over the airwaves.

Apparently. I’m not
sure. I mean, I’m not sure of anything, really. Who knows? I don’t.

Let’s have a look
now at sports.

The Night Vale High
School Scorpions already have their first district win of the season,
without actually having played a single district game. This Friday’s
football game against fierce rival Desert Bluffs has been forfeited
by the Vultures because of lack of funding. Desert Bluffs has been in
a steep year-long recession.

I mean, it’s an
awful city, but it’s hard not to feel bad. The town is facing record
unemployment and major setbacks in city programming after the buyout
and subsequent major restructuring last year of the only employer in
town, StrexCorp.

DBHS has had to cut
their athletic programs, as well as all music, history, trial
mocking, and math classes.

Next week, the
Night Vale Scorpions take on the Pine Cliff Lizard Monitors, who are
coming off last year’s successful 9-1 season, which was due, in large
part, to all of their players being ghosts, and thus extremely
difficult to tackle. 


The Scorpions will
need a lot of luck, as they will be without star running back Maliq
Herrera this season. After last year’s scandal, in which it was
revealed he wasn’t real, Herrera quit football to pursue his dreams
of becoming a conceptual artist. His current medium is woodcarvings
on living trees. He’s been at work in the Whispering Forest along the
east side of Night Vale, etching phrases like “You look nice
today!” and “I have always loved you!” into some of the cedar
trunks.

The Whispering
Forest usually lures humans with compliments, and then subsumes them,
turning them into trees as well. But, since Maliq doesn’t actually
exist, he’s immune to such pressure.

Oh! Guess what? We
have a new intern! She’s been with us the past couple of weeks,
handling our social media. I’m kind of an old fossil, and I’m not
really good at things like the internet.

Oh! In fact, I
think I’ve long since let my license to use a computer expire!

But, new intern
Danielle has really picked up the slack, transcribing my work emails
and my Hannibal fan poetry onto a Tumblr page. Intern Maureen used to
do all that but, since she left, I’ve had to lean on Danielle for all
of her expertise. Good work, Danielle! Hahaha!

Oh, speaking of
which, with the current controversy at the Dog Park, I’m gonna need
you to go down there and report on what’s happening.

Uh, Danielle is in
the producer’s booth, shaking her head no.

Danielle, you look
horrified! This is an easy story!

Huh? Uh-huh…

Oh, she's– she’s
writing something down.

OK, um, Danielle
just held her hand up to the plexiglass. She’s written on her palm in
black marker, “This position regularly puts interns in harm’s way,
and I would like to remain at my desk, where I am safe. I don’t want
to die. The Dog Park is not safe. Please understand and respect my
concerns. Sincerely, Danielle.”

Danielle also has
extremely legible handwriting and large palms.

OK. OK. I
understand that Danielle. I– I– I– I think you’re overreacting.
Uh, the last time I sent an intern to report a story at the Dog Park,
she became mayor! But OK, you do your thing.

Well, it sounds
like we’re getting our first eyewitness reports from the Dog Park.
Uh, we have on the phone right now John Peters – you know, the
farmer? Uh, John, are you at the Dog Park right now?


Howdy, Cecil, I sure am!


What’s happening down there? Are people demonstrating? Is it
peaceful?


That all depends on your definition of “peaceful,” Cecil. I’m
looking right now at these people, they’re all in a long row,
standing upright and perfectly still – perhaps a slight sway to
each individual in the breeze, but otherwise perfectly planted and
stoic. They’re all so quiet, not a single sound – ‘cept some
incidental rustling, the mundane din of physical existence, that sort
of thing – but not a word’s being spoken.


This is amazing! I am so proud of our town, taking a nonviolent
approach towards civic change. This reminds me of the classic
sit-ins, where protest…


That…well, like I said, Cecil, they ain’t sittin’, per se. They’re
all totally upright.


OK, sure, I know, I just 

…


Well you should say what you mean. That’s a famous quote. You know
who said that?


Well, I know Lewis Carrol wrote…


No.


Oh, uh, who said it, then?


…And now there are birds soarin’ above, lots of black birds
circlin’ the rows of silent citizens. The birds are cawin’ and
landin’ on some of them. There’s one citizen in particular who’s
standing on a wood pipe, his arms spread wide, his head cocked, bent
to the side. He’s wearing a straw hat, and a smile of unnatural
geometry. His eyes are solid black, and seem to be protruding from
his rough face. The birds are avoiding this particular man. I think,
perhaps, he’s the leader of these people, as he also stands perfectly
still, perfectly silent.

He is
so stoic. So strong.

Cecil?


Yes, John?


Cecil, I’m lookin’ straight at the sun right now…


Oh, John, don’t do that, that’s bad for you!


So beautiful! It is so beautiful it hurts.


Uh, John?


Oh! Here comes the cloud. That is such a relief.


So, are the people at the Dog Park carrying signs of any sort? Are
they wearing T-shirts with slogans, uh, anything like that?


They’re just all green and leafy, rising from the dirt. Little tufts
of brownish hair on top. Some of the birds are peckin’ at their faces
now, eatin’ the bulbous golden flesh hidden beneath.

Shoo!
Git goin’, you birds!

Good.
I think the birds are leavin’. Oh! Nope, they’re just circlin’ back
to some other people further away. Oh, now they’re eatin’ them other
folks’ heads! Oh, it’s brutal, Cecil, it’s just brutal!


John, wait. Are you in a corn field?


…Well…


It sounds an awful lot like a corn field.


I don’t want to get into an argument with you about semiotics, Cecil,
but I know what I see.


Thanks for the update, John.


Oh, you bet, Cecil! Always nice to talk to you.


Be gone, you birds!


And now, a word from our sponsor.

Today’s
show is sponsored by Knife.

Need
to cut a thing? Use Knife! Need to poke a hole in another thing? Try
using Knife. Have one thing and want it to become two or more 

? You could try Saw. Saw
sometimes works. But other times, you need Knife.

Just
listen to Knife in action!

Amazing!

Knife!

This
has been a word from our sponsors.

To
deal with the controversy surrounding the “no dogs or people in the
Dog Park” policy, Mayor Dana Cardinal (Oh! Hey, Danielle? That’s
the former intern I was talking about. You sure you don’t want to go
write a Dog Park story? OK, fine…) has sent her Director of
Emergency Press Conferences, Pamela Winchell, to deliver an emergency
press conference. Here is what she had to say:


Today is an important day in our city’s history. Today, citizens of
Night Vale have spoken, and they have said something. I wasn’t paying
attention. I can’t hear and see and understand 

 everyone is
having at every single moment. Someone is always trying to explain
things to me.

“Put
the car in reverse to go backwards!”

“Don’t
point that gun at me, Pamela!”

“Greenland
is mostly ice, whereas Iceland is actually Ireland misspelled!”

Always
someone over my shoulder, telling me how to do something, or someone
on my shoulder crying, or someone below my shoulder in a headlock.
It’s just too much for me to take in.

So,
some of you are against the Dog Park. Or, maybe you are against the
people against the Dog Park. I don’t know. Who can tell? Maybe you’re
against dogs who are parking. Why would dogs park? Dogs can’t drive!


Wait…did you mean dogs 

?
Are you against the “dog bark?” Oh-ho-ho-ho-hee-hee ye-ah. I’m
with you on that. There is nothing worse than an idiot dog voicing
its idiot opinion. Keep it to yourself, King Charles! Nobody asked!

Well,
maybe someone did. I once asked a dog, “Who’s a good girl?” And
it was silent. It didn’t know. Or, it didn’t want to say. Either
possibility makes me sad. I’m still sad about this. Let’s have a
moment of silence for my sadness.

…

OK.
I’m still sad, though. But the sadness sits better with me.

Did
you know it takes more muscles to frown than it does to think about
being sad? It’s true.

No
questions! I’m taking no questions! We’re done here!

Oh,
before I forget…Cecil, can we move our coffee date from Tuesday to
Wednesday? I have a dental appointment Tuesday. I – ha! – I’d
almost forgot why I’d originally called. Hah. Call me back, OK?


Oh. I guess that was just a voice mail from Pamela, not a press
conference.

Never
mind.

And
now, an update on the hole in the vacant lot out back of the Ralph’s.

The
group of huddlers that meet at the hole and huddle have now taken up
nestling.

“We’re
done huddling,” said a spokesperson for the group.

No one
knows who these former huddlers – current nestlers – are, nor
their regularly scheduled nestling times, just that the like to
nestle in the hole in the vacant lot out back of the Ralph’s. They
also like it when other people come join them. They formerly enjoyed
huddling, but now their new thing is nestling.

“Come
nestle with us,” their press release reads. “What’s the worst
that could happen? We don’t know. And we’d like to find out,” it
concludes.

A
spokesperson for the group issued a new statement just now:

“Do
not assume we like nestling, or dislike huddling. Nestling just 

.
Huddling just 

.
This is everything,” the statement reads.

So, go
nestle.

Also,
Ralph’s is a proud sponsor of our station, so maybe get some shopping
done as well. Um, probably do the shopping part first.

We’re
getting word that the people at the Dog Park have begun shouting at
the Hooded Figures who inhabit the Dog Park. They are shouting things
like, “I do not like the Dog Park policy!” and “Please, can my
dog and I come play in the park?” and “That’s a nice park!”

Some
of the dog owners have begun holding up spit-soaked tennis balls and
well-chewed Frisbees, and they are demanding that they be let into
the Dog Park so that they may get some exercise with their loving and
loyal canine companions. One of them even shouted, “My dog has to
pee really badly! See?” and then they pointed at their dog, and the
dog was shifting its weight nervously from leg to leg, its eyes
anxious, and its cheeks obviously flush underneath the dark fur.

In
response to this heightened civil disobedience, Mayor Cardinal
announce that she and the City Council will hold a meeting today to
discuss their various options for changing the Dog Park policy. The
City Council, speaking in unison, said they hated this idea, and then
they sent a dozen or so helicopters across the city of Night Vale,
spraying every citizen with sedatives.

Well,
it sounds like maybe some headway will be made at the Dog Park. I
hope it is soon, as things have gotten confrontational. I hope that


 Oh, my gosh


.

I
better take us, before I drift off, to the…weath…mmm…mm 

[“

” by 

]

Good news! That
sedative-assisted midday nap left me well rested and full of vim and
pep.

Oh. More good news.
After hours of meetings between the mayor and the City Council, the
Dog Park has been officially opened up to use by dogs – a first in
its three years of existence. There are some rules and guidelines for
Dog Park usage, of course, as outlined just now by the City Council.

First, anyone
wishing to take their dog to the Dog Park must have a dog.

Second, dog owners
must submit proper paperwork proving that they are blood-related to
their dog.

Third, after a
municipal review committee approves the application, a Hooded Figure
will take the dog into the Dog Park and play with the dog, using
city-approved Frisbees, sticks, and balls.

Dog owners may 


accompany the Hooded Figures during this time, and will be safely
packed away in Styrofoam containers for the duration of the Dog Park
program.

The
City Council added that there will be a 


bump in gasoline taxes to pay for this new program. Also, they will
be building new higher obsidian fencing around the Dog Park. They
added that dogs who go into the Dog Park as part of this new program
will not be returned to their owners.

Finally,
they’ve hired Troy Walsh Landscaping to plant new white lily gardens
around the perimeter of the Dog Park. Troy is sure great at
everything he does, so that should be real pretty!

Well,
good job, Night Vale! It’s a small step forward, but your voices were
heard. So often we think that politics is just arguing about who
should pretend to be president, but real change starts here at home,
with your streets and neighborhoods and communities.

I’m
proud of the great work done by our citizens today. We all came
together over an issue important to the people, and we were heard by
our leaders. How inspiring!

As
the old saying goes, “horses leave hoof prints on your heart.”
That doesn’t have anything to do with, uh, togetherness or change,
it’s just a warning that horses are dangerous and will try to kill
you. Know that, and you can accomplish anything.

Stay
tuned next for a review of the popular new film, “Unedited CC TV
Footage: Citgo #4172, Left Rear Cam.”

And
as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 75 - Through the Narrow Place


It’s not the destination, it’s the
endless exhausting journey.

Welcome to Night Vale.

What an exciting day for amateur
athletes, or just anyone who enjoys moving their body (for whatever
reason someone would want to do that). Today is the annual marathon
through the Narrow Place. This yearly marathon is a family-friendly
charity race that takes people on a beautiful 26 mile or so course
along the Crooked Path, down into The Deepening, and ultimately,
through the Narrow Place.

Race organizers say that this will be
the biggest marathon yet, with all the town forced to take part by
the terrifying Harbingers of the Distant Prince, and that all
participants will be devoured by the Narrow Place.

Race board president, Susan Wilman,
added, “That sounds a lot more dramatic than it is. Sorry, you know
how when you talk mostly with a small group of friends, you end up
developing a shared way of speaking that can be misleading, or
misunderstood when heard by outside ears. We just like to say that
‘the Narrow Place will devour them’ because what will happen is that
the Narrow Place will 


them with an unfeeling hunger, and they will dissipate.”

Susan
laughed, continuing, “Oh-ho-ho, there it is again! That sounds so
frightening when I say it that way, doesn’t it? Doesn’t it sound
frightening?”

She
laughed.

Susan
laughed.

She
laughed.

Her
mouth was black and featureless inside.

She
laughed.

The
marathon is this afternoon, and will be the end of us all. More on
this soon, but first let’s get into some news.

The
Desert Bluffs City Council and Desert Bluffs Mayor Dan Cardozo
announced this week (via a golden press release hidden in one lucky
Sulfur Crunch candy bar) that, due to an extreme deficit in municipal
funding, they would have to shut down certain city services including
trash pickup, road maintenance, and tree monitoring.

Starting
this Monday, citizens will have to drive their own trash to the dump,
roads will gradually start to deteriorate under the erosion of
particulate desert wind, and the movements of trees will go entirely
unwatched and unrecorded.

The
City Council and Mayor Cardozo indicated that they had done


 in their
power to prevent this shutdown – including requesting federal
assistance, selling off city property, and making offerings of food
and wine to the ancient sandstone idols out in the dunes – but that
the catastrophic loss of employment and tax dollars (after StrexCorp
shut down operations in town) were too much for even those measures
to make up for.

StrexCorp
Synernists, Inc., of course, was the former employer of every single
person in Desert Bluffs, until the company’s rapid expansion plans
into…nearby towns….led to their downfall and subsequent hostile
takeover by beings who are 


not angels. The not-at-all-angels closed down almost every Strex
office, and laid off (or, as they put it, “liberated”) all former
Strex employees, and at this point are mostly liquidating Strex
resources in order to fund operas here in Night Vale.

Listeners,
I feel for Desert Bluffs in their time of need. Mostly, I feel scorn
and triumph. More on this never, as I don’t ever want to talk about
Desert Bluffs again.

And
now, a much more important story: Khoshekh, the cat floating exactly
four feet off the ground in the men’s room here at the station.

We’ve
received all sorts of calls and emails and distress signals and
emergency flares and Morse code spelling out “HELP US! HELP US! WE
HAVE BEEN HERE FOR WEEKS! GOD SAVE OUR SOULS!” – which I can only
assume are all signs of the public’s insatiable desire to hear more
cute kitty news. And what cute kitty news we have!

Khoshekh
is reaching that time in a cat’s life when his skull is completely
visible, and I have been taking adorable photo after adorable photo
and putting them on Snapchat, with captions like “Who’s a good
kitty?” and “Behold, my skull of terror!”

Whenever
I get stressed at work, I just put on protective gear and inject
myself with a number of preemptive antitoxins, and I go pet Khoshekh
for a bit and listen to the low gurgling rumble of his purr.

His
kittens are doing as well as their daddy, and some of them are
getting nearly as big as Khoshekh was when I first found him. My
favorite of the kittens is named Mixtape, and his anterior spines are
coming in fast. He’s going to be a really big kitten when he’s fully
grown – unmanageably huge. Oh, it’ll be adorable!

That’s
about it for cat news. If there’s any more cat news, like Khoshekh
doing something cute, or just looking cute in any way, we will
immediately break into whatever ongoing news story it is that we are
reporting, and let you know.

All
right! Let’s do another round of my popular advice segment, “Hey
There, Cecil!”

Hey
there, Insecure! Ooh, wow! OK. I’d say it’s a dead tie. It’s almost
impossible to look bad in a summoning cloak. But more importantly,
instead of arguing about who looks better in a cloak, you should
appreciate how you each interact 


the cloak in your own unique way. Cherish each other. Celebrate your
summoning cloak styles, and save your arguments for that difficult
and unsettling matter about the sky.

Hey
there, Worried. You would think that we would all be able to easily
understand a teenager’s struggle, most of us having been teenagers at
one point. Well, except obviously those of us who age backwards. But,
outside of the context of a young mind, the teenage experience does
not have the same immediate, painful urgency that it does for those
who are currently living through it. It sounds like your son is
trying on new physical forms to see which ones work for him. Maybe
he’s just searching for a physical form that other kids at school
will think is cool. Whatever the issue, support him. Have sympathy
for him, and most of all, keep him safe from others, and from
himself. It’s his job to make bad decisions; it’s 


job to make sure they’re not bad enough to cause real damage. Good
luck!

Last
letter:

Hey
there, Terrified! It’s important to be able to forgive yourself for
mistakes – even real doozies. Just do your best to make things
right and move on, I say. Although, your mistake sounds…well, it


 sound terrifying.
I hope to hear nothing more about it.

That’s
all the time we have today for “Hey There, Cecil!” Keep your
calls and letters and psychic pleas coming in.

Listeners,
it looks like the marathon through the Narrow Place is almost ready
to go. Everyone in town is gathering at the starting line, with the
help of the Towering Harbingers of the Distant Prince, who are using
their toothy beaks and meaningful glances from their stomach eyes to
indicate where people should stand.

It’s
looking to be a fun race, and everyone is weeping.

Larry
Leroy, out on the edge of town, playfully tried to hide, but the
Harbingers beat him at his own game, and the fun continued when they
dragged him screaming to the starting line.

Even
the City Council is in on the festivities, their ghastly powers being
no match for the placid, unyielding might of the Harbingers.

I’m
here, too – don’t think old Cecil is exempt! Me and Carlos are
right here in matching Lycra shorts. He’s wearing his running lab
coat, and the Harbingers allowed me to bring the mobile broadcasting
equipment so I could continue to do this radio show, even though
everyone can hear me talking live, because I’m right here with them.

Oh!
And there’s Mayor Dana Cardinal, inaugurating the race by nervously
chewing on a fistful of dirt. It won’t be long now before we are all
surging forward, panicked, the Harbingers looming behind us until we
are all forced through the Narrow Place. What good exercise that will
be!

But,
while we wait, let’s have a message from our sponsors.

Today’s
sponsor is that gut feeling that you did something wrong, but you
can’t think of what it could be. What was it? You feel so guilty, but
your guilt has no target. It circles, and circles, but cannot land.
You think back through the day, trying to find the source of the
gnawing guilt, but there is nothing. And you realize that there never
was a specific cause. It’s just a part of you.

You


 the guilt. You 


the shame.

And
this only makes you feel more guilty, more ashamed, that these
emotions are somehow tied into your very being.

As
Albert Einstein famously said after he died, “The call is coming
from inside the house.”

That
gut feeling that you did something wrong, but you can’t think about
what it could be. Try it today. And tomorrow, and tomorrow, and
tomorrow.

This
has been a word from our sponsors.

Finally,
I think we just have time for this week’s horoscopes before the race.


You should check under your bed before you go to sleep. That way the
thing hiding in your closet will think you haven’t realized where it
is yet.


All eyes are on you. Gross! Give them back!


Mars is intersecting with Mercury, which means your head is weirdly
big for your body, and no one wants to tell you because they don’t
want you to have the grace of self awareness. 

.


You worry too much about earthquakes and plane crashes. You’re going
to die of heart disease or cancer, just like everybody else.


Stop throwing your money away on expensive cars and nice clothes. The
owners of those cars and outfits do not appreciate the crumpled
dollar bills you keep throwing on them! And anyway, if you want to
throw something away, that’s what garbage cans are for.


You’ve been so stressed lately. Why not just sit outside tonight,
relax, look up at the stars, and know basically nothing about the
world you live in.


Scorpions are not as dangerous as everyone thinks. Try to concentrate
on that. It’ll help you feel a little calmer tomorrow.


I know this is a hard time for you, Aries, but remember: 'tis better
to have loved and lost. It’s really great, just the best.


Step on a crack, break your mother’s back. Pick up the phone, break
your mother’s tailbone. Take your coffee with creamer, break your
mother’s femur. The wizard’s spell has gone terribly wrong, and you
must not move at all until it is reversed.


You will meet a tall, handsome stranger. He will introduce himself,
you will come to know him well, and he will know 


well. He will grow older. His skin will sag and thin. He will no
longer be handsome. He will no longer be a stranger. He will no
longer be most of the things he once was. He 


be a close friend, an old friend, one you’ve known for years, and
with whom you are settling down into that final stretch of life. But
he will always be tall. So tall. Very, very tall.


I’m not saying this is 


news, but the stars just say “

”
I mean, maybe that’s a 


sign, right? Right? It’s a very inexact science.


Today is your lucky day! Which is good news, because tonight is your


lucky night. But
enjoy this lucky day until the sun goes down. Until the very second
the sun goes down. And then…and then…

That
has been this week’s horoscopes.

Oh!
And…here we go!

Uh,
there are the starting guns, pointing at all of us, ready to fire in
case we decide not to run. Looks like the race has begun. Well,
everyone, if we end up devoured by the Narrow Place, then at least we
went out with one last fun family-friendly community event!

In any
case, while we all get moving, let’s get the latest on the weather.

[“

” by 

]

We
went along the Crooked Path, down into the Deepening. And then we
all, whether we wanted to or not, we went through the Narrow Place.
We went through, and on to the other side.

There
is no other side.

We
went 

. We sent
messages in Morse code to the people we once had been, asking for
help, but they could not help us. They were outside of the Narrow
Place.

The
Distant Prince was pleased. He gathered his Harbingers to him for the
celebration. They cooed, and merged in and out with each other,
taking startling forms.

We
screamed.

They
cooed.

We
wore black coats and had never existed.

The
Distant Prince wore a golden coat, and had always existed.

All
darkness is just a thickness of birds. There is rustling in every
shadow, every surface is alive!

We
wore black coats and we went through it. We went through the Narrow
Place.

So, it
was another 


marathon! I’m glad that our city government continues to encourage
physical activity with fun events like this, and I’m proud of all of
us for taking part. We will 


be the same again.

But
here’s a little secret for you: no one is ever the same thing again
after anything. You are never the same twice, and much of your
unhappiness comes from trying to pretend that you are. Accept that
you are different each day, and do so joyfully, recognizing it for
the gift it is. Work within the desires and goals of the person you
are currently, until you aren’t that person anymore, and everything
changes once again.

Stay
tuned next for a different you, and a different you, and a different
you again, each “you” denying their multiple nature.

And
from the Narrow Place, where we wear black coats and have never
existed, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 76 - An Epilogue


In just a few days, the whole story
will be known. This is what happens after.

Welcome to Night Vale.

The last couple weeks, as we all
know, have been eventful ones. I’m not going to go over everything
again – we all know what happened. We are well read, well informed
people who have paid attention to the whole recent “KING CITY”
affair. We know about the terrible ordeals that Diane Crayton and
Jackie Fierro endured. We know how their troubles all ended up. And
we know the truth about The Man in the Tan Jacket. We know 


about him now, because of what Diane and Jackie found out. So I won’t
go over all of that.

Instead, I’ll talk about the Barista
District, which is experiencing a severe population spike, also as a
result of that whole “KING CITY” thing. There are just so many
helpful people wandering town, asking us if we want nonfat or 2%, and
if they can get us a blueberry scone with that. You can’t open a hall
closet or tunnel under your own lawn without a barista jumping out at
you, asking if you want a tray for all of the coffee they’re going to
give you.


Whether you want it or not.

“Here it
comes! A crushing amount of coffee. Don’t run. You’ll never escape.
Do you want a tray with that?”

More on this
ongoing aftermath in a moment. But first, the news.

The
government released a statement Friday, disavowing knowledge of any
events which resulted from a recent gardening supplies sale that they



have been involved with. A representative of the U.S. government, in
association with the world government, the shadow government, the
lizard people, and the watchers from beyond the stars, wrapped in a
burlap cloak and speaking in a low croaking voice, said, “So, yeah,
we recently sold surplus and used materials from a variety of secret
government projects and experiments, all disguised as gardening
supplies. And, yes, the resulting effects on human life and on the
very nature of time were unfortunate, and yes, people died in ways
that we did not previously think were even possible in this
particular universe, but…basically, it comes down to this: America.
Love it or leave it.”

When asked about
any efforts that were being made to provide aid to those who were
dislodged from the natural laws of the universe as the result of
dangerous experimental materials sold in Night Vale under the guise
of simple home goods and gardening wares, the representative only
repeated, “America. Love it or leave it” – each iteration a
little rounder, a little more abstracted, from human communication,
until it was only a series of guttural sounds in the vague shape of
what used to be words, as the representative retreated further and
further into their burlap cloak until it collapsed, empty, upon the
podium, smelling of compost and grain alcohol.

All in all, a
pretty typical statement from the government, and hopefully this
clears up that whole thing with the flamingos.

Due to the
recent events we all have read about, the librarians have been more
active than usual. Witnesses, who were paid to go witness by others
who were afraid to get close enough to see, report that there is
steam and sparks flying out of the Public Library’s many chimneys.
Howling can be heard, both inside the building and from the mouths of
the witnesses as, through the windows, they glimpse the terrible
physical forms of the librarians.

There is even a
few unconfirmed reports that, in the confusion of recent events, and
the resulting damage done to the library building, one of the
librarians may have escaped.

Of
course, a disaster of that magnitude hasn’t happened since…oh, uh,
I guess it would have been…last year? So, that doesn’t seem likely.
Truly, it would be awful if it did, though. We lost 


people from so many different places the last time a librarian
escaped.


One of the witnesses, James Patterson (oh – no relation to the
famous local dairy farmer James Patterson) reported that perhaps the
librarians have developed the power to mentally influence those
around them, since the closer he got to the library, the more
strongly he felt the urge to read books.


“Are there any good novels coming out soon?” he began foolishly
asking, blind to the dangers that books present. “Oh, man, I could
really use a new novel!” he babbled – the poor thing, not even
understanding the ghastly words spewing from his mouth.

We
have no idea if this event was an aberration or if librarians have
truly developed the terrifying ability to make people want to
actually read books. But all citizens would be well advised to stay
clear of libraries, and any dangerous books they may see in
bookstores everywhere quite soon. I mean, you should 


avoid books and libraries, but now it might be worth taking extra
precautionary measures, like scooping your eyes out with grapefruit
spoons and triple-bolting your door.


And now, back to today’s epilogue.


The baristas are continuing to multiply. All over town, businesses
that were recently useful, normal things (like gas stations, and
antiques malls, and screaming sheds) are now suddenly coffee shops,
full of identical baristas demonstrating their ability to illustrate,
using steamed milk on coffee, the exact moment of your death.


This crisis makes me think of the Man in the Tan Jacket, who was with
us in so many crises through our town’s recent history. What would he
have done with this situation?


Perhaps, it would help to start at the beginning. The beginning is
usually an awfully convenient place to start, right? But trying to
find a beginning means grappling with the question of time.


Scientists have a game where they try to explain time to each other
without laughing. No one has ever won.


The Man came to us first almost three years ago, a newcomer in a Tan
Jacket. I remember him standing by the side of the road in the small
puddle of light cast from a burning refrigerator.

And
that is the thing – the remembering. When he was here, we did not
remember him. We forgot him constantly, a Specter in a Tan Jacket.
Now he is 


here, and we remember him perfectly. Years of stories and experience
come flooding back to us.


We remember him scampering over the walls of the Dog Park. We
remember him showing us a map to a place very far from here, a place
we did not understand at all. We remember him passing out pieces of
paper – the content of which was a mystery, the physical properties
of which were a nuisance.


But here, again, I cover a story we already know, because we all so
recently experienced it.


Old Woman Josie released a statement to me, in person, as part of a
conversation we were having privately – without her saying it was a
statement. It was just a – a thing she said to me during a
conversation. Anyway, here it is:

She
said, “I always liked that Man in the Tan Jacket. Even when I was
afraid of him and suspicious of him. Even when he showed up at my
door in the middle of the night with that suitcase of his, the
suitcase that constantly buzzed, knocking on my door and babbling
about how he needed help desperately, how we had to help save his
home…even then, as I was ignoring him in his hour of need, I 


him. Even when I forgot him completely, and had no idea he even
existed, I liked him. You know, this fruit salad Carlos made is just
delicious!”

And
I agree with Josie’s statement. The fruit salad we were having at our
lunch together was 


good, and I wolfed it down, even though I’ve been trying to cut back
on my meat consumption lately.


I got a little sidetracked there.


To get back to the point, we’re all likely going to be destroyed by
an endless stream of baristas. Which is, of course, a direct result
of the recent events involving Jackie and Diane.


So…there’s that.


Listeners, looks like we’re in need of a new intern. Intern Danielle
has stopped coming to the office. I mean, Danielle had all these
crazy conspiracy theories about how radio interns are “doomed,”
so she wanted to stay inside and focus only on computer work. She
steadfastly refused any field reporting assignments.

So
I complied with her wishes, and let her run our social media accounts
– which I thought would make her happy. But a few weeks ago, after
giving her the simple and 


job of taking pictures of Khoshekh, our radio station’s live-in cat,
for our official station MySpace as well as to my personal Google+
and Snapchat accounts, she just…stopped coming to work. I guess she
just didn’t have it in her anymore.

But
listen, if you’re more motivated to learn about a career in radio
than Danielle, we’d love to have you come intern here at the station.
All you need to do to become a community radio intern is 


run away when station management surrounds you outside your home
shouting, “This one is next! This one is next!”


And now, a word from our sponsors.

(Um,
personally? I find the content of this ad…

,
given my earlier warning, but I’m informed by station management that
I have to read it as written.)


Here goes.


Many of us like books. None of us like to admit it. We know that
reading makes us deviants, perverts, freaks. Many of us might say –
on the radio for instance – that books are dangerous and should be
avoided. Even thinking the words “I like books” to ourselves
makes us shudder with a secret shame.


We know that we should only be reading government pamphlets, and the
prophecies on the back of cereal boxes…but again and again, we find
ourselves returning to the dark sickness of literary language.

Who
among us can say that they do not have, buried in a box of linens
under their bed, a well-read copy of 

 by Kate Tempest, or a collection of Annie Baker’s


?


Given all this, should we band together, deviant with deviant? A
deviance so natural that it is no deviance at all, but an ingrained
motion of the heart, a secret desire so common, that it is no more
secret than the sun? Should we begin to admit, together, that we all
sometimes like to touch and read books?


No! Of course not! We should be ashamed and hide our love of books
from each other, heaping scorn and hypocritical anger upon anyone who
dares to reveal that they have the same desires we do.

Harper
Perennial. All of our literature is shipped to you in unmarked brown
paper wrappings. Charges will appear on your credit card statement as


.


No one has to know you are a book reading freak.


This has been a message from our sponsors.

Ugh.


.


The population of the Barista District continues to grow, doubling
almost every hour, through no means known to modern science, antique
science, or reverse science.


Carlos is working on a solution, but in the meantime, townspeople are
overwhelmed and scared by the coffee options suddenly available to
them. They are screaming. They are screaming and running away.


Larry Leroy, out on the edge of town, told me that he can see them
now, the baristas, and that they are beautiful and surging.

“There
are so many hands holding so much coffee! They are all 

!
This might be it,” Larry is saying.


“Anything could be it,” he is continuing.


“Any moment could be the last one. We should always be prepared for
the eventuality of no more eventualities. We all live on the narrow
precipice, but also yeah! This barista thing is really going off,
huh?” he concluded.

Perhaps
if the Man in the Tan Jacket were here, he would have some idea, some
solution, or even would just be there to add a comforting forgettable
presence to this ongoing disaster. But of course, he is 


here, and we all know why. We all know who he really is now.


Oh. Oh! Carlos is texting me. He…oh. OK.


He says that he has a solution to this whole barista thing.


Oh, hey! That’s quite clever!

And
it also takes care of that…


problem. You know, the one I don’t even have to explain to you right
now, because it was so frightful and all-consuming and fresh in our
memories?


OK. While Carlos does his clever plan, I’ll do a clever pan of my own
– which is taking you to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

And
now, here we are, in the 

.


Carlos’ plan…well, we read about what it was and how it turned out.
No need to summarize here.

What
do we do after such huge events have transpired? After the ones in
danger no longer are (meaning either that they no longer are in
danger, or that – in an existential sense – they just…no longer


)?

Well,
I’ll tell you what 


do. I’m going to go bowling with Carlos. League Night is tonight, and
we’ve gotten the team back together with Old Woman Josie. Of course,
she can use her left hand again now, now that this affair we’ve been
talking about is all over, so our scores should be up.


And…what else? The sky, of course, always that.

Let’s
start there, and work our way down to Earth. Other cities, other
places…


city. 


place.


I imagine that soon, this town will settle back into the routine of
its existence, until a new peril arises again soon. Like a heartbeat:
a sudden, violent movement – and in between, a lull. In itself, a
rhythm. A counterpart. A silence between the beats.

Night
Vale in a lull: the doctors at the hospital going about their
mysterious routines; the pawn shop (its name changed now, of course,
after what happened recently); the Office District, and…oh? It
looks like there is a large family of tarantulas heading there now,
and they do 


look happy. I would hate to be whoever it is that they’re looking
for.

The
Moonlite All-Nite Diner, where I’m sure Steve Carlsberg is going to
stop by on his way home for a slice of invisible pie; our mayor,
Dana, getting ready to finish her work; Carlos’ lab, where he is also
finishing up his work (see you soon, Carlos!); and…and 

.


Over a housing tract, across town, I can see a dot in the sky,
floating high above one of the houses, twirling and soaring higher. I
can’t quite see what it is…but it’s lovely.

In
any case, an entire town swinging back to the normal, getting on with
life in the 

.
After all of the things that we all now know happened. All of us.

Except,
of course, one person. A person missing. A person who we all missed.
A person impossible to remember. A person 


impossible to forget.


A Man in the Tan Jacket.


And what next?


Well, I think there may be other people, other stories to tell. We
are, each of us, a vast story waiting for someone to tell it.

Stay
tuned, in just a few days (or, depending on where you are in time,
any day you decide to get around to it), for a four-hundred-and-one
page factual report about the events that led to this epilogue –


 from your favorite factual
report retailer.


In the meantime, from after the whole of what you haven’t yet read,
goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 77 - A Stranger


When a window closes, so does a door.
So do 

 the other doors and
windows. The house is alive, and it doesn’t know you, and it is
scared.

Welcome to Night
Vale.

Today’s top
story: there’s a strange person standing in the lobby of our radio
station. This person is standing still, in front of the reception
counter. Our receptionist, Lance, keeps asking the stranger if they
need anything, or if they are here to see anyone. The stranger has
not moved. Lance said that he never saw the stranger enter. He looked
up, and the stranger was just there, about eight feet away from
Lance’s desk.

The stranger has
eyes that are darker than some people’s eyes, but lighter than other
people’s eyes. The same could be said about the stranger’s hair,
teeth, clothing, lips, and skin.

The stranger
stands with their arms at their side, weight distributed evenly
across the hips – a rigid but casual stance. The stranger can be
seen breathing. It is hard to say exactly what the stranger is
looking at. It is even harder to say what the stranger wants.

Lance told me he
would update me on the stranger, and I will do the same for you,
listeners.

Now it’s time for
another Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

Did you know that
over 70% of the earth’s surface is water? It’s true! Scientists
believe that the other 30% is some kind of animal hide. Their data
shows that the world’s continents comprise the leathery back of a
slow-moving ocean beast. They don’t know specifically what kind of
beast, but scientists hope that it’s cute.

Or, at minimum,
non-venomous and fairly easy to take care of.

Scientists are
hoping they’re wrong about all of this, but given that they’re
scientists, that’s pretty much impossible.

Lest the beast
reveal its true nature, please walk gently and speak softly so as not
to alert it to your presence.

This has been
Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

Mayor Dana
Cardinal announced this morning that she has been in touch with
neighboring city Desert Bluffs.

“It’s
a disgusting town with terrible people, and we will no longer speak
of them,” she would have announced, if she were me. But, here is
what she 

said:

What
does it mean to be a good neighbor, Night Vale? Is it enough that we
introduce ourselves? That we say hello? That we avoid eye contact and
have sturdy doors and call centers for reporting suspicious activity?
How far out does neighborliness extend?

Because I have
tapped my friend’s phones, and am using trained birds to record all
of their activities, does that make me a kind person? A neighborly
person?

It does.

But
what about beyond what we can see? 


we can see? How far does our kindness extend? To the limits of our
city? To the limits of our eyesight? To the end of our block? To the
tips of our noses?

People of Night
Vale, we have a chance to help a neighbor in need. I have been
approached by our friends to the north…

W–
wait, I– I’m being told it’s 


to the north. To the 

.
Oh…

What?
It changes? Really?

Okay.

Shh. Shhhh!

…By our nearby
friends in this desert.

Due to financial
hardships, the people of Desert Bluffs are in need. We are all in
this together, Night Vale. Sickness can spread, whether that sickness
is viral or economic. We must not ignore our neighbors, our friends.

Today I have
asked the City Council to negotiate a low-interest loan to Desert
Bluffs, our proximate civic family. I think they would do the same
for us.

If I sound
passionate, it is because my heart is full of blood. If I sound
boisterous, it is because my lungs are full of words. If I sound like
I am eating, it’s because my mouth is full of dirt. Sometimes I chew
on dirt when I’m anxious, or when I’m happy, or when I’m talking. I
like chewing on dirt.

I hope you will
support your neighbors in whatever direction they live. I hope you
will support my decision as mayor.

Good day, Night
Vale.


Mayor Cardinal’s deputy, Trish Hidge, said there would be no
questions. She then picked the mayor up into her arms, pulled her
cloak across their huddled bodies, and ran through the crowd, bowling
over journalists and onlookers, and some random jogger who thinks
he’s better than everyone else because he exercises publicly.

The City Council
has already registered their opposition to the mayor’s plan to help
Desert Bluffs. The City Council issued their own statement, which was
to stomp into their room, slam the door, and play Rihanna very
loudly.

I
have to say, I 


with the City Council on this issue, listeners. I understand Mayor
Cardinal’s concern about Desert Bluffs’ struggling economy, and she
is a very kind and sympathetic person. But, as the poet Robert Frost
once said, “Good fences make good neighbors. Really 


fences. With razor wire and turrets. Keep those neighbors out.”

And Frost was
right.

I support Dana on
most issues, but I say, save your sympathy for your own town’s
people.

An update on the
stranger standing in our lobby:

The
stranger is 


standing in our lobby. Lance approached them, but grew scared. The
stranger stood so still that it became impossible to derive context
from motion or activity. Any sound or movement the stranger might
make would be completely divorced of linear narrative or conventional
meaning. At any moment the stranger could suddenly lurch, or shriek,
without apparent cause. Thus the clenching terror Lance felt as he
neared the person in the lobby.

Lance mentioned
he could hear breathing. It wasn’t labored, but it also wasn’t quiet.

“It was a
person breathing,” Lance confirmed.

I’m
not entirely sure how Lance confirmed that. I’m also not entirely
sure how anyone can confirm 

,
so let’s just go with what Lance says.

Listeners, if
you’ve been trying to call into the station I apologize, as Lance is
too frozen in fear to do much of anything. He thinks he sees the
stranger moving, but he also thinks he does not. He is desperate for
some explanation of this person’s presence in our lobby, but he has
received none.

Lance is now
crying, but without tears.

He is screaming,
but without sound.

He wants so gain
the courage to touch the stranger, to hit the stranger, to punch and
punch and kick and claw at the stranger. He wants to feel the relief,
a release from the madness of mystery. He would rather experience
actual pain than wait any longer in anticipation of the unknown.

Lance wants to
sigh, but he cannot. He doesn’t remember the last time he exhaled. He
is not sure of what is real. So he is sorry if you keep getting our
voicemail here at the station. It’s been a rough day.

More on this
soon. But first, let’s have a look at this week’s Community Calendar.

Thursday
afternoon, there is a free ice cream social for all members of the
Illuminati. If you are Illuminati, please go to the secret
underground bunker. There will be ice cream, streamers, and, of
course, a bocce ball tournament. If you are 


Illuminati, please disregard this notice. Maybe just stock up on some
bottled water and bullets, and hope for the best.

Friday night,
Dark Owl Records will host a 90s fashion night. Everyone is required
to non-ironically wear t-shirts and hats from the 1990s, which were
originally ironically worn t-shirts and hats from the 1970s. Owner
Michelle Nguyen asked that everyone be as sincere as they can be.
Irony will not be tolerated, only studied, museum-like, on puffy
truck hats with clever witticisms like “HEY,
BEER!” or “I LIKE HIGHWAY”
or “DOG,” along
with airbrushed pictures of rattlesnakes, eagles, hot glue guns, and
screen doors.

Nguyen asked that
I not invite the public to this event.

Oh.

Oooohhhhhhhhhh…I
should have read the whole press release before reading that.

And…I…just
received a…

 press release from Dark Owl owner Michelle
Nguyen, announcing that the event has been canceled because people
know about it.


Sorry, Michelle!

On Saturday,
StrexCorp – formerly a Desert Bluffs corporation and now a Night
Vale business, owned and operated by beings who are definitely not
angels – will be the headline sponsor of a new program called “Free
Opera Day,” a weekly community event where anyone can hear opera at
no cost. In fact, you don’t even have to go to the New Old Opera
House to hear it! Opera will be broadcast from the municipal
loudspeakers, which are located on every residential block in the
city, and within most residential homes.

On Sunday, the
Night Vale Opera will be running their most popular weekly program,
“Opera Free Day,” where citizens are relieved of all opera for 24
hours. No one is allowed to play any opera at all. Armed soldiers
from a private armed soldier corporation will walk the streets making
sure no one is playing any opera.

“What 


opera?” one armed soldier will ask the others.

“I don’t know,”
another will reply.

“Could 


be opera?” another will ask.

“Let’s go check
it out,” they’ll all say, lifting their rifles and approaching what
will 

 to be an automated car wash.

Monday morning
doesn’t really matter. Nothing ever did. Be silent, and look upward
to the sky as if it had your answers. It does not. The sky is as dumb
as rocks. 

 dumb. You’ll figure that out early Monday
morning, as you passively choose to experience the day in spite of
its pointlessness, mumbling, “naught else remains to do,” while
brushing your teeth.

And now a word
from our sponsor.

Today’s show is
sponsored by…well, it’s sponsored by…your mom.

She’s really
nice, and she mailed us a ten dollar bill to sponsor this show.
That’s well below our usual advertising rate here at the station, but
your mom was just the 

!

She also wrote a
letter saying that she hopes you’re having a fun time listening to
the show, she knows it’s your favorite radio program (

),
and wants you to know that she loves you very much (

).

Your mom also
wants to know if you’re still seeing that 

. He’s bad news,
and she doesn’t like his tattoos. Not that people with tattoos are
bad, that’s not what she’s saying, but…

“What do you
think his skin will look like when he’s 60?” she added. “What do
you think 

 skin will look like when they’re 60?” she
said repeatedly.

She asked several
quiet sad questions about the process of aging. Then she said she
cares for you no matter what. She just wants you to be happy.

This message has
been brought to you by your mom.

Good news,
listeners! I’ve just learned that the stranger standing in our lobby
has finally moved. Unfortunately, the stranger has begun walking
slowly toward Lance. The stranger raised one arm, imperceptibly at
first, but by the time the hand was nearly brushing Lance’s neck,
Lance realized it and leapt out of the way.

Lance is
currently standing behind his rolling chair, watching closely for the
stranger’s next move, even though the stranger is moving so slowly as
to appear motionless.

It’s like the old
adage about the frog and the frying pan? I mean, they say if you put
a frog in a frying pan and then turn up the heat very gradually, then
you’re a sociopath who takes pleasure in the torture of innocent
animals. Go easy on the frogs, OK? They’re adorable, and ecologically
important, but also easy to trick into dying.

[

]

[

]
Oh my goodness! Lance!

Listeners, I must
check on my colleague, uh, but first, I must take you to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Listeners, we
found Lance.

He was curled
into a dark corner of the storage closet, his eyes dull, his jaw
slack, his gray maw unnaturally long.

The stranger who
had stood so quietly, so nearly still in the lobby before, is now
nowhere to be seen. Likely, they are still in this very building,
ready to show themselves again at any moment.

I bent down, and
took Lance’s hand. He was always a good receptionist.

Well…he wasn’t


 great. I mean, there’s no national receptionist ranking
system, how am I supposed to know? I’ve never done it myself. Uh, he
could have been a receptionist savant, for all I know about the
field.

But Lance was a
good man. He loved movies. He always dreamed of moving to Hollywood
and becoming a makeup artist for major motion pictures. He 


doing makeup. But it was a dream deferred as he could never figure
out where Hollywood was, or how you were supposed to get there. Most
airlines and bus drivers would stare blankly at him when he tried to
buy a ticket. It’s not on any map I’ve ever seen. It’s possible Lance
just invented it to take his mind off the tedium of daily life.

Either way, his
makeup skills came in handy, as he did himself up just like that poor
girl in the closet from his favorite documentary, The Ring. Plaid
skirt and white shirt, long hair, and a grotesque corpse face. He
really nailed it!

I told him good
job, he climbed out of the storage room and said thanks. I told him
one day, someone will find out where Hollywood is, and he’ll go there
and be a super-famous makeup artist.

He didn’t say
anything. We stood in silence for several minutes.

Oh, I’m taking a
continuing education class at the community college about the art of
conversation. They said every good conversationalist should try to
find five to seven straight minutes of no speaking, in order to let
others talk. Lance is taking that same class, so we 

 gave
the other person room to speak for those long silent minutes.

Finally, our
intern Kate entered and told us her roommate called to say there’s a
stranger standing just outside their apartment door. The stranger
isn’t moving, or speaking, and won’t leave.

Kate said she
needed to take off early to deal with this. She said this several
times, each iteration slightly louder, slightly more strained.

Have a great rest
of your day, Kate!

Oh, Lance has
returned to his work, feeling better. I asked him to check for missed
calls, as the light for the voicemail was rapidly blinking to
indicate it was full. We apparently received 

 of calls
from Night Vale residents reporting strangers – standing, silent,
and unmoving – in their homes, or sitting in the back seats of
their cars. A few residents were in their beds in the middle of the
night when they turned and found a stranger there, lying beside them,
empty eyes staring at nothing. Not moving.

Listeners, maybe
take a moment to check outside your front door. Check for a silent
strange face in your window, or just around the corner at the end of
a hallway. Perhaps take an agonizing look into your shower. Just in
case. Make sure there is no one there.

If there is,
well, be patient. They move pretty slowly, it turns out.

You know what?
Maybe hide until the stranger leaves. It’ll be fine…but maybe hide.
Or run away. Maybe just huddle down, close your eyes, and hope one
isn’t near you right now.

Stay tuned next
for the sound of human breathing. Which is probably just your own
breathing…probably.

As always,
goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 78 - Cooking Stuff




Episode 79 - Lost in the Mail


We brought something back with us,
something we cannot escape: memories of a great vacation to deepest
space! And, the merciless Distant Prince.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Listeners, it is a solemn day here in
Night Vale. Even more solemn than last year’s Solemnity Fest, during
which three people were overcome and had to be revived with party
hats and whoopee cushions.

Today is Remembrance Day, that
special day once per year when we interrupt our routines to reflect
upon those who probably sacrificed their lives for us in the endless
Blood Space War. We’re not sure whether they are alive or dead,
because there is a thousand-year difference between our time and
those who fight for us on the vast intergalactic battlefields where
time converges.

But, we assume that they are all
heroes.

On this day, we put aside our
political differences – even deeply bitter, divisive differences,
like the belief or disbelief in mountains – and we all come
together to remember those who will die thousands of years from now,
and hope that the impossibility of victory is less impossible than
before.

Like any deeply painful and serious
subject, it is best remembered through the medium of a civic parade.

Looking out of the studio I can see
the parade route is packed with onlookers, and everything is getting
underway. The symbolic dead lead the procession, each of them wearing
the mask of one of those who went into the distance of time and can
never return.

Behind them is a float depicting the
enormous serpent whose mouth contains the universe, a playful
reminder to us all that even the stars must someday be swallowed.

Following that apparition comes our
mayor, and my friend, Dana Cardinal, in her ceremonial mayor’s
coffin.

Behind her are the Citizens for a
Blood Space War, still over 600 million dollars left to hit the
fund-raising goal for their bomb that may destroy reality as we
understand it. Get those cookies in the oven for the next bake sale!

A brief departure now from the parade
in progress.

All this week, we have been reaching
out to you, the listeners, and asking for stories about how the Blood
Space War has affected your lives. You heard from the Black Dauphin on
how to grow a victory garden inside your body, and Sarah Bismuth
shared the story of her Etsy store where she sells dolls that
represent individual soldiers in the Blood Space War, showing the
actual wounds they will someday suffer.

And now, today, in her own words, I
bring you the story of a girl whose father volunteered to fight.
Let’s listen together.


Uh, I’m Basimah Bishara and I am a junior at Night Vale High. My
father, Faqir Bishara, left to join the Blood Space War when I was
six.

I
remember the glowing doorway he stepped through when the tall,
silver-skinned recruiter came to our house, and the sound of it,
like, a slide whistle going up, but the most tragic slide whistle
I’ve ever heard. My dad was gone forever…but also, he isn’t gone at
all.

I
think I’m a regular student…whatever that means. I haven’t grown
wings like the cheerleaders, but I fit in. I’m bad at math. I mean, I
used to be good at it, but I think I stopped paying attention. It
seems like it was pointing toward a truth I didn’t want to learn.

I’m
really good at science and English. I used to be in marching band;
now I prefer guitar. Me and my friends formed an all-girl thrash
group. We’re called The Misfits.

I
guess how it works is that, once a year for the first hundred years
of Dad’s journey, they’re going to wake him up and allow him to send
a message back to Earth. I have a big family, so it’s not like I
don’t feel loved.

Sometimes
I feel like it would be easier if my dad couldn’t get in touch with
me at all.

No,
I don’t wish that. I love him!

I
wish he never left.

The
messages show up on my night stand in these gelatinous gashapon
capsules. They are warm and soft in my hands. The words are printed
on a tiny roll of plastic inside.

He
only gets to send one every year, and he always sends it to me right
around my birthday, but not exactly 


my birthday. I don’t know whether he’s getting it wrong or they are.
Or, maybe, it’s just time being weird again. I like to believe it’s
that.

To
my dad, he left 11 days ago but to me, it’s most of my lifetime. I’ll
be an old woman and he’ll still be on his way to the war sending
letters to a 

 that
he remembers from just a few weeks before.

It’s
stupid.

It’s
not stupid, I guess.

It
is stupid, though. It is.


More from Basimah in a bit, but we need to update you on the parade.

Aah,
here comes The Emissary, listeners! It wouldn’t be Remembrance day
without a visit from the only entity to ever return from the war. It
has been hauled up from the pit, and yes, here it comes!

No
one knows 

 The
Emissary is, or 


The Emissary inhabits a cosmonaut’s suit.

Oh!
It’s lifting the visor and giving us a glimpse at the void within the
helmet. And it’s…it’s saying something! Um, I’ll try to interpret.

“All
these things are meaningless. End the war.”

Well,
of course, that’s the whole 

,
isn’t it, listeners? If we end the war, it will go on eternally. We
must 

 the war
to bring it to an end. It’s why all those brave people enlisted, and
keep enlisting, and will enlist forever.

And
there goes The Emissary, a solemn reminder of why our volunteers
continue to fight in the Blood Space War. Ah. What a brave being!

Soon
we will trap it back in its pit.

Speaking
of those volunteers, the Night Vale Veterans of a Blood Space War
Association is holding a fish fry this Saturday to raise money for a
statue of the unknown soldier, to be built 1,000 years in the future
– by which time we may know who the soldier is. Bring friends,
family, fish, and whatever else you would like fried over to the VFW
Hive located in the space between the walls at the abandoned cannery.

Oh!
Uh, oh no! Uh, while I avert my gaze from the Shriner’s homunculi,
let’s have a word from our sponsors.

Do
you have dry eyes? Red eyes? Goat eyes? Aphid eyes? Any other eyes
you’re not currently using? We want your eyes at Richter’s Eye Glass
Hut!

We
give you money for your unwanted eyes and turn them into glass for
affordable window panes.

How?
Don’t ask questions.

Come
on down to Richter’s Eye Glass Hut, located conveniently off the
highway helix in the shadow of the immense precarious rock.

No
longer accepting potato eyes or the eye of a storm. Not responsible
for our windows watching you while you sleep.

And
now, let’s return to Basimah’s story.


“The ship is 

 big,
it makes me think of big things, Basi.”

That’s
what he calls me. It was my nickname when I was six.

I’m
not six.

It
all comes out of him at a jumble.

“They
say what we are going to fight is an idea like a color or pride, but
it can kill us. If the idea gets inside you, then it’s over. Basi, do
you remember the song we used to sing you to put you to sleep? Paula
Abdul, 

.”

And
then he wrote the whole song out, but he got a bunch of the lyrics
wrong. I guess he was doing it from memory.

I
got a capsule two months ago telling me he wants me to be a doctor so
I can cure one of the big diseases like cancer. “Like cancer,”
there is 

 like
cancer. There is just cancer.

Sure,
I’ll cure that, space-dad. No pressure, right?

Most
of the messages my father sends me are lists of ways I need to live
my life, things I should do and shouldn’t do, you know? He told me to
pray every day, and obey my mother. When I was nine he warned me not
to kiss a boy until I was 16, which…well, I guess good news for him
there!

Divergence
started with little things. He said I should get a puppy for my
eighth birthday, but I got a snail. When I was 15, he wanted to make
sure I had started wearing my hijab. Mom said I should make my own
choices, so sometimes I wear it, and sometimes I don’t. Like, always
at mosque, but not that often at school. That sort of thing.

My
father is talking to a person who isn’t me, to a person that doesn’t
exist. He has imagined my entire childhood and young adulthood. He
brings up obvious milestones, like starting high school or that first
kiss, but…he doesn’t know about that car accident I spent most of
my 14th year recovering from. I can’t tell him about the poems I
write, or about the fact that I have a girlfriend, not a boyfriend.

He’s
a ghost to me and my mom. Or, maybe, since he’s going to be around
long after I’m gone, I’m the one who’s a ghost to him.

I
take some comfort knowing my dad got paid a 


of money for joining the Blood Space War. Enough to take care of me
and Mom for a long time and, really, having a space-dad is just
another way to have a family. Everyone’s got their own thing, you
know?

Like,
all of The Misfits. Clara is in a nuclear family straight from the
1950s but, like, 


from the 1950s, even as she lives her life in 2015. Neesha has a
council of fathers. Jacqueline’s mom is a spider. So long as you are
loved, it doesn’t matter.

So
my dad’s a space ghost. I can deal. I just wish Dad loved 

,
not the 


who I was 11 years ago.

Or
maybe I’m not OK with it. Maybe I wish he would come back. I wish he
would be a dad to me, not to the ghost of me that haunts him.


More with Basimah coming up, but first, the weather.

[“

”
by 

]

The
parade has ended. Most of the onlookers have ceased to look on, and
the wind is gathering up the paper Remembrance Day masks, and
depositing them in a random scattering across our sidewalks and
streets.

A
lone dog I recognize from a recurring dream is staring at me from a
block away. A dark van rumbles past. Everything is calm and quiet
once again and…

Oh!
Oh, my!

Oh!
You startled me.

Uh,
listeners, The Emissary has appeared in the studio without
warning…without even opening a door. It is sitting in the chair
next to me and slowly rotating. Its visor is open, and I’m being
forced to stare at the ineffable darkness within The Emissary’s
helmet.

Uh,
I believe it is asking if I understand the nature of unreality.

Um,
Emissary, I understand dreams, and fantasies, and this gooey
sometimes-incredible sometimes-painful world that surrounds us, but I
can only experience it with my seven senses.

Listeners,
The Emissary is saying that the nature of unreality is that
experience and reality are linked, but separate. What is experienced
may not be real. What is real may never be experienced.

Well,
so far this is just basic geometry, like we all learn in the third
grade. Where is The Emissary going with this?

The
Emissary is saying…in a thousand years, we will turn the vastness
of space red for no reason. There was never a purpose to this war we
made.

But…if
Remembrance Day has taught me anything, under strict order of the
Sheriff’s Secret Police, it is that war is a purpose unto itself.

Um,
The Emissary is asking me to…end the conflict.

But…

I’m
sorry, Emissary, I– I– I do not have the power to end the Blood
Space War. After all the blood that has been spilled in space, or



be spilled, or…


be spilled at some theoretical point in the future, I– I’m just a
humble radio host. And 


are a sentient nothingness inhabiting the suit of a dead cosmonaut.
How could the two of us hope to stop a war? I don’t know!

I
just don’t know.

The
Emissary is gone, as though it was never here. Maybe it wasn’t. After
all, this moment was only something I experienced, not something I
know is real.

Let’s
hear the rest of Basimah’s tape.


People always say to me, “You must be proud of your father going
off to fight in the Blood Space War.” I used to say yes to that.
Not anymore. I don’t care if it makes me selfish or ungrateful, my
dad made the wrong choice and I want him back.

He
wrote down the lyrics all wrong.

“You’re
going to see, I’m gonna run, I’m gonna fly, I’m gonna bring this love
back to you…”

Ah!
How did you get in my room?

What
are you?

What



you?

…Daddy?

Is
that you, Daddy?

Daddy!
Daddy!


Listeners, I don’t know how The Emissary ended up in this taped
recording dropped off at the studio three days ago, given that The
Emissary was only released from its pit this morning.

But
then, I don’t know how my favorite type of pie is made, but when I
order it, there it is, steaming and delicious! I don’t know how the
mail gets delivered, but every day, like clockwork, it doesn’t! I
don’t know how lost pets end up on the moon! But they do. And they
have built an extensive city up there.

The
clock claims it is now 12:01. Remembrance Day is over. We can all
return to our lives, and to forgetting that the Blood Space War is
going on. Or…


go on. Maybe. 1,000 years from now.

And
maybe, in 1,000 years, plus a day or two, those brave volunteers we
sent to fight in a war none of us understand will allow the most
dangerous idea of all into their heads:

They
will turn back, and return home, to us, against all laws of time and
space.

Paraphrasing
the half-remembered words of an ancient prophet, perhaps they will
bring this love back to us.

Or,
maybe, they already have.

Stay
tuned next for events that will or will not happen in the order that
they may or may not occur.

And
from the present, as I am currently experiencing it, goodnight Night
Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 8 - The Lights in Radon Canyon


Silence is golden. Words are vibrations. Thoughts are magic.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Next Saturday is the big lottery drawing, listeners, right out in front of City Hall. And your community radio station has put together a few helpful tips for winning.

The lottery is, of course, mandatory, but how can 

 get the best odds for drawing a blank white paper, and not one of the purple pieces that means you’ll be ceremonially disemboweled and eaten by the wolves at the Night Vale Petting Zoo and Makeshift Carnival?

I know to some of you young people this lottery seems like a barbarous, outdated tradition. But if not for a municipally-planned citizen sacrifice each quarter, how else would we find satisfactory meats to feed those sad, scrawny animals?

So here now are the “Three I’s” of playing the lottery:

Also, make sure to visit the Food Truck Festival, which will be downtown as part of the lottery festivities. Popular truck treats include Korean barbecue, vegetarian chili, and veal ice cream. 

Carlos, this station’s favorite scientist (no offense to Dr. Dubinski in the Night Vale Community College chemistry department) dropped by our broadcasting station earlier this morning for a little chat.

Sadly, dinner or weekend plans were not among the topics.

However, Carlos 

 request that we ask listeners for anyone who saw a series of bright, colorful flickers coming from Radon Canyon this past weekend. These flickers would also have also been accompanied by unintelligible noises – possibly some form of coded communication or signal-jamming technique.

Carlos suggested that there could be some very sinister forces at work here. He declined to be interviewed live, claiming only that he was 

. 

 for 

 of us in our 

 Then he drove away quickly in his economical but attractively sporty hybrid coupe. 

If anyone out there knows anything about these otherworldly lights and sounds, please contact us immediately.

Night Vale school superintendent Nick Ford, announced today that the Glow Cloud has joined the School Board. The Glow Cloud passed over the entirety of Night Vale several weeks ago – dropping small and large animal carcasses, controlling our thoughts and tertiary muscle groups, and erasing every last recording device. We’re still unsure the Glow Cloud even existed, as no one remembers it, nor has any digital record of it. If not for a few intrepid citizens who used old-fashioned pens and pencils to record the event in their diaries, we would have no remaining knowledge of that day.

I, of course, can only thank those journal writers anonymously here on the air, as the Night Vale City Council long ago 

 writing utensils – along with margarita glasses and bar code scanners – and I don’t want to get my fellow reporters in any trouble with the Sheriff’s Secret Police. 

According to Superintendent Ford, the Glow Cloud’s visit on that nearly-forgotten day was simply an effort to find a 

 with 

 to raise a child.

Now what kind of progeny a powerful, formless cloud formed of noxious nightmares and spiritual destruction might produce, I dare not even speculate. But I do know one thing: that little cloud is going to get one heck of an education in the Night Vale School District.

And isn’t it heartening to hear that that little puff of despair’s father, or mother, will serve on the School Board? I mean, no matter how good the school, a student can only get out as much as the parents put in. We should all take such an impactful role in our children’s scholastic lives.

Especially you, 

. You don’t do anything except bring unacceptably dry scones to PTA meetings and take grammatically disastrous minutes on your shifts as meeting secretary. Get it together, Steve!

Superintendent Ford offered the following statement of support for the newest school board member:

And now, traffic.

This morning, I saw a running man. He passed by my home. Panting. Limping. Running desperate. I tried to stop him, but he would not meet my eye.

This noon time, I saw a running man. He was coming down from the mountain, holding a bag. His knees were bloody, and face covered in tears.

This evening, I saw a running man. He was leaving town, legs pumping like a terrified heart. I think he was missing a hand.

Is it that he wouldn’t meet my eye, or that he 

 no eyes? Now I wish I could remember. There are 

 things I wish I could remember.

This has been traffic.

New billboards have appeared all over town, bearing the image of a turkey sandwich and the single word “HARLOT” in large, block letters.

These billboards have caused some confusion – both due to their ambiguous message and to the fact that the entire structure of the billboards materialized overnight in places billboards are not usually constructed, such as the living rooms of local homes, the middle of busy thoroughfares (causing multiple car accidents), and, in one case, directly 

 a living dog, who does not appear harmed by the addition to his body, and has carried the 

 around town while going about his usual canine business.

The Department of Health and Human Services recently claimed responsibility for the billboards, saying that they were part of a campaign to promote nutrition and healthy living among children. The original draft of the release also mentioned something about an offering to a long-dead god, but this was altered to “fun, active lifestyles are important for kids of all ages” in a subsequent addendum.

We’re receiving several phone calls from listeners, and from the Parks Department, that those flickering lights and unintelligible noises we reported on earlier were coming from the Pink Floyd Multimedia Laser Spectacular. I contacted Carlos about this, and he said that the situation is even worse than he imagined.

He, again, did not mention weekend plans.

A sports scandal has shook our quiet little town. The Night Vale Scorpions have faced multiple allegations of possible game tampering this football season. Representatives for the Desert Bluffs School District, speaking in unpleasant and high-pitched voices indicative of weakness of will and character, complained to the Regional Football and Traffic Code Authority that Night Vale quarterback Michael Sandero’s recently-grown second head counts as a twelfth man on the field, thus invalidating the wins brought on by his 

 recently-acquired superhuman agility and strength.

The RFTCA said that they would look into these allegations with the utmost seriousness, along with their concurrent investigation into whether Night Vale’s “invisible crosswalk” policy is actually a desperate bid to save town funds at the cost of pedestrian lives.

Meanwhile, the School Board is due to announce its decision in the ongoing hearings as to whether appealing to Angels for a win constitutes illegal game tampering. Several Angels agreed to testify at the hearings, however their testimonials were cut short when it became apparent that the hearings were actually elaborate traps set up by the City Council to finally capture the Angels, whom the Council does not recognize as actually existing.

Fortunately, the Angels easily escaped from their cages in a blaze of Heavenly light, presumably returning to Old Woman Josie’s house, out near the Car Lot, which has become something of an informal shelter for local Angels.

When asked about the controversy over his team’s winning record, Coach Nazr al-Mujaheed said, “Our boys are good boys. They’re good boys at football. We win ‘em. With the boys. The football.” Then he smiled vacantly, waved at no one, and wandered off in the direction of the woods. More on this story as it develops.

And now, a word from our sponsor.

Step into your nearest Subway restaurant today, and try their new 6-inch mashed potato sub! Top it with a delicious assortment of fresh vegetables, like french fries and Nutella. They’ll even toast or poach it for you! There are several Subway locations in Night Vale, all easily accessible through witchcraft and chanting. And between now and November 30, buy nine reverse colonics and get a free 40-ounce soda or freshly baked tobacco cookie.

Subway: Devour your own empty heart.

Exciting news about the Abandoned Mine Shaft outside of town, where people who vote incorrectly are taken by the secret police: HBO On Demand will be made available to prisoners during their indefinite detention. All your favorite shows, such as The Wire, Sex and the City, and even new hits like Game Of Thrones, will be available in every cell.

Additionally, the secret police announced that they will be randomly executing one prisoner a day until all incorrect votes are corrected.

This just in: We’re receiving word from the City Council that there was absolutely 

 a Pink Floyd Multimedia Laser Spectacular this weekend at Radon Canyon…that there 

 never a Pink Floyd Multimedia Laser Spectacular 

 near Night Vale. “Pink Floyd is not even a 

,” said the Council in a very stern, but quiet, statement just received by me, here, via phone.

The Council…and this is strange…the 

 Council – not just a 

 of the Council, the 

 – issued this statement, all speaking in unison, just now, over the phone: that Night Vale citizens are prohibited from discussing any lights or sounds coming from Radon Canyon this past weekend, and that they should just stop remembering Pink Floyd shows altogether.

The Council reiterated that there is 

 that they are huge Floyd fans, privately using public funds on a laser-powered seance to talk “hard-rockin’ classic jams” with the ghost of original front man Syd Barrett, and that Syd “wouldn’t even say anything juicy anyway, because he is such a gentleman, and an artist.” This did not happen at all.

So, listeners, we urge you to look 

 from Radon Canyon. Avert your eyes, ears, and memories from that which is no longer allowed you.

Comfort and distract yourselves with dense food and television programming. As the old adage goes:

Or, at least, that’s how my grandparents always phrased it.

And now, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Teddy Williams, over at the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, has an update on the doorway into that vast, underground city he found in the pin retrieval area of Lane Five.

He says that every window of the city is now glowing both day and night. And he heard the shouts and footsteps of what sounds like an army marching upwards toward the world above. He also said that, given that nothing really matters now, bowling is half-off and each game comes with a free basket of wings.

Mmm, nothing like those Desert Flower wings!

Let me leave you with this, dear listeners.

We lead frantic lives. Filled with needs and responsibilities, but completely devoid of any actual purpose. I say let’s try to enjoy the simple things. Life should be like a basket of chicken wings: salty, full of fat and vinegar, and surrounded by celery you’ll never actually eat, even when you’re greedily sopping up the last viscous streaks of buffalo sauce from the wax paper with your spit-stained index finger. Yes, 

 is as life should be, Night Vale.

Stay tuned next for a special live broadcast of the Night Vale Symphony Orchestra performing Eugene O'Neill’s classic play The Iceman Cometh.

It 

 a good night, listeners. 

Goodnight.

Episode 80 - A New Sheriff in Town


I fought the law, and the law won. I
ignored the law, and the law won. I abided by the law, and the law
won.

Welcome to Night Vale.

There’s a new sheriff in town, Night
Vale. The former sheriff, whose name we never knew, whose face we
never saw, and whose voice was only ever heard through a vocoder, is
gone. Our former sheriff was secretive, reclusive, really into
classical music, and kleptocracy, rarely made public appearances,
and, when he did, it was with a balaclava and cape.

The new
sheriff has a more public persona, refusing to wear the traditional
mask or cape, and actually allowing their first name to be known
(it’s Sam, by the way).

The
sheriff called a press conference this morning to announce that they
are taking over the Secret Police, effective immediately.

More
on this story as it develops. But first, an editorial.

It’s
the holidays, Night Vale. I know many of you will get to spend this
time with people you love. I know I’ll be sharing some eggnog with my
dearest family: Carlos, Abby, Janice…

.

But,
let’s not forget those people who quietly make our lives better. The
postal carriers, the baristas and food servers, cab drivers, and the
agents from a Vague, Yet Menacing, Government Agency who sit outside
our homes, night after night, recording all of our conversations and
activities. Think how boring a job domestic espionage must be. They
are out there at all hours. Do they ever get to sleep? Or spend
holidays with families? Or take vacations? Who even knows?

So,
the other day, swept up in the holiday spirit, I took some delicious


 out to the windowless van across from my home, and gave
them to the agent sitting in the back. Her name is Monica Barnwell,
and she was just a lovely person. She appreciated that I recognized
all the hard work she has put in the last several years surveilling
me, and I thanked her for her service to our community.

We
had some small talk, and then I said, “well, gotta get back to my
dull life!” as I looked down at my shoes.

She
said, “Thanks, Cecil.”

And
then I said, “Monica, would you like me to…I don’t
know…question the world government, or be more anti-war, or talk
more like a political dissonant, or something? Just to make your day
a little more exciting.”

“Oh,
that’d be so fun, Cecil, thanks!” she said.

Then
I went back inside and told my boyfriend I wanted to get a beret.
Either red or camouflage.

So
Night Vale, this holiday season, think about all the people you may
take for granted. You don’t have to give them a gift or anything;
just a thank you, and a smile for all their hard work is enough. And,
if you have any particularly juicy secrets, consider brightening some
agent’s day by announcing them in a loud, clear voice to the nearest
hidden microphone in your home.

The
new sheriff has spoken. They opened their press conference with the
following statement:

“Citizens
of Night Vale, we have a crisis on our hands, and that crisis is…”

Then
the sheriff performed a ten-minute modern dance piece, set to music
by Steve Reich (of course), that frantically yet lyrically conveyed a
disdain for the fiscal irresponsibility of current mayor Dana
Cardinal.

The
press corps loved the piece, especially its subtle tribute to
choreographer Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker’s sweeping repetitive style,
even though the Sheriff’s muscular, longitudinal movements obviously
indicated heavy training in Lester Horton’s methodology. They
applauded politely, and the sheriff continued with their speech.
Quote:

“Our
Secret Police force has been secretly requesting budget increases to
help cover overtime and new equipment. Maybe you didn’t know about
it,” the sheriff said, “because it, you know, secret and all. But
we were requesting it, secretly. Don’t print that! It’s a secret!”

The
sheriff went on.

“Instead,
the mayor has decided to use 


money to help the citizens of our unfriendly neighboring town, Desert
Bluffs. We will not only see a rise in crime, because we have a mayor
who decided to disrupt our stable economy, but we will also face a
lack of financial ability to effectively stop this crime.

“I
will secretly undermine the mayor’s authority, with the help of the
City Council and some lizard people I know, to keep Night Vale
’

“Hey!
Don’t report my finger-quotes around the word 


They’re secret!

“This
is my promise to you, as your new sheriff.”

One
reporter then asked, “Umm, what happened to the old sheriff?”

The
new sheriff responded by painting a canvas entirely blue.

More
on this story, but first, an update on the trial of the century.

Judge
Siobhan Azdaq has brought in a computer programmer named Melony
Pennington to develop the first-ever all-A.I. Jury for the trial of
Hiram McDaniels. Attorneys have had a difficult time finding a jury
of peers for McDaniels, as he is 


a five-headed dragon and, outside of his family, seems to be the only
one of his kind in the area. Not knowing how to find actual dragons
to serve on the jury, and not willing to have a five-headed dragon
unfairly juried by all humans, judge Azdaq called for science to
solve this problem. Because, according to Azdaq, science has solved
every other problem.

Both
the prosecuting attorney, Troy Walsh, and the court-appointed defense
attorney, also named Troy Walsh, agreed that this is a fair solution,
“and artificial intelligence is probably a thing anyone with a
Macbook and some Red Bull has already mastered, like, years ago,”
they said in unison, with identical smiles and matching haircuts.

Pennington
has been working with young computer prodigy, Meghan Wallaby, who is
an 11-year-old girl who inhabits what once was the body of a Russian
sailor, and also was only born three years ago. But then, the
specifics of her identity and her manifestation within time are
really none of your business.

Wallaby
is helping Pennington engineer a sentient program that can think
exactly like six different five-headed dragons. Meghan has had a real
affinity for computers ever since the…uh, the 


in the school gym that one time.

The
other members of the jury will be humans. Auditions for those jury
slots will be conducted Wednesday at the Night Vale Community
Theater.

Four
of Hiram’s five heads are being brought up on charges of conspiracy
and attempted murder of our mayor. The fifth head, the violet one, is
being courted as a key witness by the prosecution, but they’re having
a difficult time getting a private conversation with it.

The
trial is scheduled for early next year.

Oh,
by the way, listeners, I ran into former station intern Maureen! I
actually didn’t notice her at first, as I was listening to an album I
just got. It’s a new musical about Alexander Hamilton, who became our
nation’s fourth president because he successfully killed former vice
president Aaron Burr in a duel.

Anyway,
the 


is fantastic, and I was totally engrossed in my lip syncing and
self-styled choreography when I saw Maureen waving to me from down
the street. I saw she was with someone, but his baseball hat was
pulled down over his face, so I didn’t get a good look at him.

Maureen
then asked me for a letter stating she’d completed her internship,
because she needed those two credits for college. I reminded her she
spent most of her internship flickering in and out of existence,
so…I couldn’t write the letter. But, I was really excited to see
she was dating someone.

Then
she said something about not assuming people are dating just because
they’re hanging out, blah blah blah, I don’t even like boys, blah
blah, but I kept staring at the boy in the ball cap, and I did not
like him one bit. I felt like I knew him from somewhere, but I
couldn’t put my finger on where.

Oh,
well. I’m sure it won’t come up again.

I
told Maureen it was a good thing she wasn’t into boys, because this
one seemed like bad news.

“


bad news,” I whispered, and Maureen groaned and rolled her eyes in
what I assume was agreement.

Then
I said, “Good seeing you!” and walked away.

She
shouted, “Come back!” and “Where’s my credit letter?” while
waving her fist and cussing, which is (I guess) how kids today say
“goodbye.”

Oh,
listeners! I need to make an apology. Earlier in today’s show, I
mentioned giving some cookies to the agent from a Vague, Yet
Menacing, Government Agency, and in the process I revealed her full
name as 

,
and the location of her operation as 

.
Because of this security breach, Monica has apparently lost her job
as a secret agent and had to go into hiding for the rest of her life,
changing her looks and identity, and never seeing her family or
friends again.

Really
sorry about that one, Monica.

Let’s
have a look at traffic. What do you say?

Feet
apart, toes together. Right foot turned 45 degrees. No need for
mathematical precision, but if you have a protractor, break it into
pieces and swallow it. Absorb its numbers like nutrients. Bend your
knees. Bend other things that allow for bending. Do not force
malleability.

That
right foot, though? What’s it doing? Did you move your foot?

Memories
aren’t real.

Do
you control your self? Not if you don’t remember being in control.
Maybe we pretend to have experienced things so we don’t have to
actually understand why they happened.

Your
foot is flexing now. Why? What silent siren’s song calls your right
foot?

You
are sitting. You are passive, still.

Your
left foot idles in the dark, complacent and obedient.

Your
right foot serves a greater god. It flexes for its idol, all plastic
and steel, and full of fire and fumes. Your right foot wishes for you
to pray with a clear mind, and open eyes.

This
has been traffic.

And
now an update on the new sheriff’s press conference.

The
sheriff announced that while they couldn’t do anything about the
money the mayor has already wasted on neighboring towns, the Secret
Police would certainly make it clear to anyone from Desert Bluffs who
might be trying to enter Night Vale that they would not be wanted.

The
sheriff announced a plan to tag all Desert Bluffs citizens with
bright orange hats that have the word “UNWANTED” written in
blinking L.E.D. lights across the front.

As
the sheriff said this, several journalists shifted uncomfortably in
their seats. This is because their seats were uncomfortable, but they
still nodded excitedly about the sheriff’s cool new idea.

One
journalist pointed out, though, that the orange hat thing would be an
added expense, what with having to print up hats and design the
L.E.D.s and all that. “And this whole press conference seems to be
about our city’s lack of funding for new projects,” the journalist
said.

In
the tense silence that followed, the journalist added, “Plus,
everyone from Desert Bluffs is pretty easy to identify, what with all
the blood on their sh–”

But
then the reporter was helpfully tackled and muzzled by the other
reporters who did not want to get off on the wrong foot with the new
sheriff.

As
the great television news man Edward R. Murrow once said, “Hey,
don’t rock the boat, okay?”

In
the commotion, no one seemed to notice the appearance of several
strangers, standing around the perimeter of the conference room. Our
new station intern Kareem was there, and claimed the strangers really
didn’t 

 so much
as 

,
even though he was positive they were not there at the start.

They
were completely still, except for their breathing. They were
definitely breathing. And everyone heard it.

No
one knew what the strangers wanted, but they were certain it wasn’t
good.

The
members of the press stepped backward into the middle of the room.
They waited. And from the silence came a noise. There came a
sudden…

Oh.
It’s almost 20 past the hour, listeners. I had better get to the
weather report. Here you go.

[“

” by 

]

Where
was I? Ah, a-ha.

They
waited. From the silence came a noise. Then there came a sudden…

OK,
yeah. Basically, everyone was quiet until a reporter asked the
sheriff, “Who are these people? Will the Secret Police protect us?”

The
sheriff did not respond. It was quiet, save for the strangers’
breathing for about three minutes.

Then
the questions and cries came in increasing volume and pace, “Who
are these people? Sheriff, why aren’t the moving? What do they want?
Has anyone seen my phone? We’re going to die!” Et cetera.

Eventually
the room devolved into panic, members of the press shoving to get
out, but in a way that suggested that the exit was 


each other.

Then
the sheriff raised their hand, and announced into the microphone,
“Everything’s fine.”

No
one believed the sheriff, and the sheriff, knowing this, rephrased
the statement.

“Some
things are not fine, but other things are fine! 

,”
and here, the sheriff indicated the whole room, “is probably fine.”

The
panicked reporters were now filled with both fear and doubt. The
sheriff stood, stupefied, as a single bead of sweat rolled down their
brow, along the nose, forming a thin wet crack across their entire
face. No one breathed. Except the strangers, of course, who, by the
time the droplet had completed its erratic journey, were somehow
several feet closer to the press corps – despite never having
visibly moved an inch.

Everyone
in the room, including the sheriff, knew that death was upon them.
None of them were afraid of death. They were, instead, terrified of
what would come immediately 

,
and immediately 

,
death.

Listeners,
like I said earlier, our own intern Kareem was part of that press
corps today. So, to the family of intern Kareem, he’s a good intern.
And is doing great work. He got back from the press conference a
little bit ago saying he had a great time, and he also provided some
excellent reporting.

According
to Kareem, the strangers encroached slowly on the remaining
journalists, moving without seeming to move. No one could look the
strangers in the eye. They did not know what the strangers wanted of
them, just that their lives were likely over. Kareem said he heard
someone crying, another person frantically chanting, and he was
trying to take it all in.

But
then he heard a flapping of wings, like a pteranodon or a librarian.
And, looking up, he saw a flash of blackness and long feathered
creatures descending from a dark sky. And the next thing he knew, he
was back at the radio station, safely interning once again.

Kareem
called the creatures that saved everyone “angels,” but I reminded
him that there is no such thing, and according to the 

, it is illegal to acknowledge the existence of
angels, so this is what…

Oh.

Uh,
Kareem is now trying to argue with me about the fluidity of
vernacular and the constant evolution of language.

Ugh.
Okay.

All
right, listeners, I need to deal with this.

Stay
tuned next for the real life actualization of that dream you had last
Tuesday. You’ll make a cute couple, so congratulations!

And
as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 81 - After 3327


To err is human. But to err is 


computer. We’ll have to find another test to reveal which of us are
secretly bots.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Let’s start things off with the
Community Calendar.

This afternoon, the Museum of
Forbidden Technologies will be hosting a lecture by Night Vale High’s
A.P. auto shop teacher, Nick Teller. He will be demonstrating some
fun devices he came up with while tinkering around in his garage. As
usual for talks at the museum, Nick will be covered with a burlap
tarp, and a white noise machine will be played through a
state-of-the-art surround sound system, so that no dangerous and
secret technology can accidentally be learned about.

Tuesday will be the annual day in
which we leave offerings of fruit and Rolaids for the Eternal Scouts
on display in front of City Hall. These brave children rose through
the ranks from Boy Scout, to Eagle Scout, Blood Pact Scout, Weird
Scout, Dreadnought Scout, Dark Scout, and Fear Scout, before finally
achieving the rank of Eternal Scout.

Now, these two brave boys, Frank and
Barty, stand in their glass cases, as they have for almost three
years, with wide unseeing eyes, wide unseeing mouths, and long
unseeing hair.

It is rumored that one day, in Night
Vale’s hour of greatest need, the Eternal Scouts will awake and walk
among us once again. Until then, we all bow our heads in silent
reverence so that we don’t have to look at them because they are 


creepy. We all look at the ground instead, because the ground it 


creepy, except that it consumes your body when your body no longer
belongs to you.

Wednesday
is “Take Your Daughter to Work Day.” Wednesday is “Put Your
Daughter to Work Day.” Wednesday is “Teach Your Daughter How to
Do Whatever Simple Task It Is You are Paid to Do and Then, Once She
has Mastered It, Slip Away and Leave Her as Your Replacement Day.”

If
you do not have a daughter, one will be assigned to you. If you 


have a daughter…

Thursday
is a lost cause. Why even bother with Thursday? We all tried and
tried, and still Thursday is what it is. Let’s all give up hope for
Thursday and just let it do its thing.

Friday
evening, legendary rock band The Clash and the great Amy Winehouse
are joining together for a free concert in your imagination.

Saturday,
there will be a sale at Dark Owl Records, with everything wildly
reduced in price. Cheapest of all, said Dark Owl owner Michelle
Nguyen, will be the idea of art, which has been degraded to a point
where it holds no recognizable value.

“It’s
like, what does art even 


outside of the intention to make art?” said Nguyen in a statement
she burned into my lawn this morning. “And does the intention to
make art alone define what it is? Anyway, you can take art for all I
care. I moved on to the intricate fractal happenstance of nature,
like, 

 ago,”
she concluded.

If
there’s any particular album you’re looking for, please do ask for it
by name so that Michelle can know the album is too well-known now,
and she can put every copy she owns in the garbage, with all the rest
of the popular music.

Sunday
is someone else’s problem. What, you have to worry about 

 yourself?

This
has been the Community Calendar.

My
former intern Maureen has dropped by the studio, and oh my God! She
has the most 


beagle puppy with her! Look at you! 


I’m here too.


Oh, of course! Hello, Maureen, you are also here. Yes.


Hi. Whatever. I guess hi.


Maureen, it’s just a delight to have you and your little buddy here!


Yeah. I– I bet it’s a delight.


Okay. What’s been new with you?


Well, let’s see. Oh, yeah. I had to start a new internship because I
still need those credits to graduate. The new internship’s pretty
sweet, I guess. I, lead an army, or whatever.


You lead an army?


Or whatever! It doesn’t matter! I mean, I don’t have to! If you could
write my intern credit letter for school, I wouldn’t have to do this
other internship. I could just graduate…


Oh, your new internship sounds great! I hope you’re truly applying
yourself.


I– I’ve been talking with another former intern of yours, by the
way.


Oh, Dana? Oh! So proud of her! My best intern. 

.
She’s really doing some great things for this town. You know she’s
mayor now, right?


I know who Mayor Cardinal is! Everything’s about Dana, isn’t it? “Oh,
look at me, I got college credits, and I get to be mayor, not like
Maureen. Maureen has to lead an army, or whatever, to get those
credits.


An army?


Or whatever, it’s not important!


It sounds kind of important.


Oh, does it!?! Is that what sounds important? Do you know that there
are people starving to death somewhere?


Oh my God, where? We should help them!


I don’t know, somewhere! Wasn’t being specific. Wasn’t actually
suggesting making the world a better place. Was just using
theoretical human suffering as a deflection.


Oh, have you been taking those, uh, Art of Conversation classes at
the community college, too? Our receptionist, Lance, got me into
these classes, and I’ve learned so much about how to better talk with
people. Uh, techniques like intense, almost-invasive listening, and
absolute denial of the reality of truth. 

,
changing the subject – your best line of defense.


Can you write me a credit letter, or not?


That’s a good question. Another good question is, “Whose a good
boy? Whose a good boy!”


This dog is, obviously! He’s a beagle! Therefore, he’s a good boy!
This was a mistake. I’ll talk to you later, or whatever. More
whatever than later.


Bye, buddy! Oh, look at you, such a cute dog! I would do anything for
that little face, that tiny adorable face and those 

! I would do anything!

Oh
no, the beagle’s leaving! In the arms of Maureen. Maureen is also
leaving.

Um,
goodbye, Maureen! It was nice of you to drop by and talk about…oh,
whatever it was you were talking about.

Listeners,
she’s leaving in the company of that same boy I saw her with a couple
weeks ago. The one with the baseball cap pulled low over his face? I
definitely recognize him. Where do I know him from?

Nah,
I’m certain this won’t come up again. I wouldn’t worry about it.

A
small update on my previous Community Calendar announcement. Things
have…gone off track during A.P. auto shop teacher Nick Teller’s
presentation on his inventions. It seems that he somehow accidentally
removed the unsecured burlap tarp from his body, and turned off the
switch on the white noise machine next to him, thus foiling the usual
safeguards against learning.

His
completely audible talk covered simple life hacks he’s developed to
lower your electric bill.

The
first is a way of transmitting energy over great distances. To that
end, he held up a lit light bulb, not visibly attached to any power
source. The power, Nick said, came wirelessly from a coil situated 26
miles away in the desert.

His
other power saving tips included setting your thermostat just a bit
higher, improving the insulation in your home, and using a free
energy generator he invented that can provide power for an entire
household indefinitely, on no fuel at all.

The
World Government has made a statement, apologizing for the technical
errors that are allowing this speech to be heard, and have released a
response that consists of just the words, “Nuh-uh!” drawn in red
crayon on construction paper.

So,
two interesting sides to consider in this story.

Update
on the trial of the century, as four of the five heads belonging to
five-headed dragon Hiram McDaniels are tried for their role in the
attempted coup against our beloved mayor.

The
first witness of the trial was called to the stand today. It was
Harrison Kip, Adjunct Professor of Archaeology at the Night Vale
Community College. He was once tricked by Hiram’s heads and their
co-conspirator, the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your
Home, into summoning a sand golem that wreaked havoc throughout Night
Vale. We covered all this, of course, in our two-part report last
year.

Harrison
had been so ashamed of his role in the destruction that he fled into
the desert to live the life of a simple hermit, only reaching out to
civilization to procure the bare necessities of life. And,
occasionally, get on Skype to remotely teach classes and hold office
hours.

Mr.
Kip did his best to describe what had happened. But mainly, all that
happened is that he was tricked into raising a sand golem, so his
testimony wasn’t that interesting.

The
only highlight came when he was asked about his months out in the
desert. He indicated that he found the desert mostly peaceful, but
that he had recently seen something in the middle of the night that
had disturbed him. He seemed very shook up about it, slumping
forward, and mumbling what was (I believe) the word “appalling”
over and over.

That
part of his testimony probably didn’t mean anything, and probably
doesn’t indicate anything is going to happen. As that famous T.V.
lawyer, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, always says in her big closing
arguments, “

”

Nick
Teller’s speech at the Museum of Forbidden Technologies is
disastrously continuing to be heard by attendees. And, even more
disastrously, the contents of this speech are being repeated on the
radio.

He
moved on from his energy tips to reminisce a bit about some projects
of his that didn’t go exactly according to plan.

For
instance, he said he once did some work on a boat in Pennsylvania


, and a
few mixed-up calculations meant that instead of the boat becoming
invisible, as planned, it jumped through both time and parallel
universes, horribly altering every human on board. 

But,
Nick went on to emphasize, he didn’t let failures like that get him
down, even though that particular failure was 

 that he had to
change his name and fake his death in order to evade the
consequences.

Whoo!
This is inspiring stuff. Even though hearing it is completely
illegal…as is, probably, repeating it on the radio.

Whoopsie!

Well,
more from Nick as I continue to “accidentally” tell you what he’s
saying.

But
first, today’s traffic.

A
spectrum of gray. The top-most gray is that of sunlight, filtered
through high-altitude clouds. Then, through lower-altitude haze,
darkening down on a monochromatic spectrum toward dirt that is
gray…or, 


gray due to the quality of light.

Built
up from the dirt are gray buildings, full of gray people speaking
grayly.

“Yes,
I’ll have another slice of pie,” they say.

“Business
is looking as good as this pie,” they say.

“Pie
tastes great, and is better, nutritionally, than most people think,”
they say.

Colorless,
toneless words. Gray faces slacking onto gray necks and gray bodies,
gray dreams of a gray future that is neither good nor bad, but just
what’s next. A gray life, lived grayly. Gray dreams through gray
nights, electric lights too bright to ever let dark settle into dark,
no great absence to contrast the stars, no rich black of the void, a
gray night. Gray dreams. Gray life. Gray words. Gray buildings in a
gray world and the light grays grayly through the gray.

This
has been traffic.

And
now, a word from our sponsors:

Today’s
sponsor is Google. Looking for pictures of a monkey riding a pony?
Just search that on Google and it will probably be there. Looking for
pictures of a dog named Table? Search that, and I bet someone named
their dog Table and took a picture.

How
about an image of the exact moment of your death? I don’t know, that
might be on there too. Give it a search!

The
internet is huge. Whatever it is, it’s probably on there.

Google.
Search for super-weird stuff. You’ll probably find something at least
kind of similar.

This
has been a word from our sponsors.

Well,
it’s almost time for our weather report, and I have to admit, I’m
surprised. I’d have thought, given some of the forbidden information
we’ve been repeating from Nick Teller that we would have been shut
down by now. But maybe I was wrong ab– 


wrong
ab– 


wrong
about– 


–bout
that– 


shut
down by now– 


wrong–



wrong–



wrong–



wrong–



wrong–



g-g-g-g-g-g-gggggggggggggggggggg

[“

” by Katie Kuffel]

I’m
finally back, listeners.

I’m
sure you’ve noticed, over the past several days, that our usual
broadcasts had been replaced by harsh buzzing and the occasional
shout of “You’re not hearing anything right now, this isn’t sound!”

As I
had kind of hoped, the World Government shut down our station. Which
meant that I got a couple weeks off.

I
had been needing a break, and the extra-legal closure of my place of
work, and the forced reeducation of all of us who work there, gave me
just the chance I needed.

In
between reeducation sessions, I did a number of household chores that
needed doing. Painting, gutter cleaning, and the like. The picking
up, and the putting down, and the mending, and the clearing.
Re-sodding my lawn after Michelle burned her statement into it. I had
some quiet time with Carlos, and I re-watched the entire series of
Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Uh! I just love at the end of every
episode, after she successfully wins the big court case, when she
smokes cigars and cracks wise with her law firm partner, Angel. Ugh!
So good.

I
also dropped in on Nick Teller at his auto shop in the high school.
He had just finished up feeding the cars and was grading some papers,
but he kindly made time for a chat. I asked him if he wished things
had turned out for him differently, if he wished that he hadn’t had
to flee his old life and come to this town where his best inventions
are suppressed by order of the World Government.

He
smiled.

“No,”
he said. “Honestly, I get it. The world has never been accepting of
what I do, and I’m happy with my life here. I like teaching auto
shop, I like working with young people, I like guiding them into a
life of creating new things that will never see the light of day
because they threaten the system as it is and the powers as they are.
It’s rewarding work.”

I
told him I was glad that he seemed to have found peace in his life.
He said he was, too.

“After
all,” he said, “what other choice would I have? It’s not like I
can go back and fix my mistakes. Or…wait.”

He
turned pensively and told me that he had some old papers he wanted to
look through for 


reasons, and asked if I could leave him to it. And so I did.

Listeners,
maybe at some point Nick wanted to be something other than he was,
but that doesn’t mean he is beholden to that dream he once had. It’s
okay for him to be all right with who he is now. Acceptance is not
failure. Sometimes acceptance is just acceptance.

Of
course, one must always be open to new dreams, and new ambition. And
if, at some point, Nick decides that he no longer wants to be an A.P.
auto shop teacher, or if he decides he wants to alter history so he
will never have even come here…then that, too, will be okay.

Stay
tuned next for an unexpected gain in cabin pressure. No mask will
help you. We weren’t prepared for things to go this way.

And
goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 82 - Skating Rink


If you’re happy,
and you know it, then the chemtrails are finally working.

Welcome to Night
Vale.

Today is the
grand opening of the newest feature at the Desert Flower Bowling
Alley and Arcade Fun Complex: a skating rink! Ah!

Owner Teddy
Williams said he has loved roller skating ever since he was a child,
and it’s been a dream of his to build a skating rink in Night Vale.
Williams said skate rentals are half off during this opening rink,
and there will be music by local DJs every Friday night.

Williams
also clarified that there is absolutely no way there is 


underground city living below the rink.

“I
double checked, triple checked,” Williams said. “There’s no way a
portal to another civilization could be under there, because I built
the skating rink on top of the old pet cemetery. No confrontational
nation will come from the ground and attack us.”

Teddy
said he did hear occasional growls and hisses, and even a few loud
bird-like shrieks coming from the walls, but this is most likely just
the ghosts of the dead animals whose corpses he disturbed when
building the rink.

“It’ll
be 

,” he
added, as Joan Jett’s “

” played loudly in the background.

The
City Council announced today that flowers look especially pretty.

“Everyone
go smell the flowers!” they snarled wistfully in unison. “Have
you ever smelled one of those things? Just so full of color, and
musk, and fluffy yellow dust. Here, smell this!” And they threw
daisies all over the surprised reporters.

The
Council asked if the sun looked like it was smiling.

“We
just stare at that 


all day!” they sneered lovingly. “We think it is the kindest
thing in the sky! Look!” The City Council then pointed up at the
windowless conference room’s dropped ceiling.

Well,
it’s so nice to hear the City Council in a good mood! I can’t think
of the last time they’ve sounded so hopeful and cheery. Have they


 been in a good
mood?

But
you know, everyone here at the station, too, has been
uncharacteristically friendly the past few days. Station Management,
who…I only ever see as shadows and glowing orange lights in the
corner office, and who regularly scream and– and cause the building
to shake when the ad sales team doesn’t make quarterly goals…has
been buying donuts for the staff. They also bought us a new claw
hammer and a stone pounding board for making coffee.

Plus,
this morning, they left a card on my desk thanking me. Yeah! Station
Management, thanking me, 


giving me a raise! I didn’t even know I was getting paid! Oof!

Well,
so many people having a lovely day, I hope you’re having one too,
Night Vale.

Our
new sheriff followed up the City Council press conference with a
report on the growing number of strangers in Night Vale. These
strangers appear out of nowhere, and do not visibly move, other than
their even, deliberate breaths. Sometimes they are suddenly closer,
without anyone seeing them take a step.

The
sheriff said they think the strangers are just people from Desert
Bluffs, who have abandoned their wretched city to come live in Night
Vale, but that the Secret Police are looking further into rumors that
the strangers might be something else entirely.

When
pressed about their opposition to Mayor Dana Cardinal’s financial
assistance of Desert Bluffs, the sheriff brought out a several
foot-high stone and sculpted an intricate series of interconnected
geometrical shapes, each one balancing the next. The reporters
watched the Sheriff for hours, until the sculpture was complete.

The
Sheriff then added that they do not oppose the mayor on all issues.

“In
fact, Mayor Cardinal is a 


mayor. We just disagree on the issue of how to fight crime,” the
sheriff said, still tightly gripping their stone carver. “For
instance, I agree with the mayor about needing to open the Dog Park
to dogs 

 people! I
love dogs! I think it would be great if folks could take their dogs
into the Dog Park.”

The
sheriff then said that they saw the cutest beagle puppy the other
day. Really, 


cute! The sheriff leaned close into the mic and said, “

”

Listeners,
um, I’m getting word that the City Council was just seen in public,
walking across the front lawn of City Hall, each of them carrying
matching black cases. Witnesses were stunned, as the City Council is
rarely seen outside of City Hall – despite their constant
vacations.

Some
reported that they heard the Council whistling Mariah Carey’s “

,” but others reported that that must have been the
bluebirds fluttering around just above their heads.

Some
eyewitness accounts said that the Council wasn’t even walking, they
were “strolling.” When has the City Council ever strolled? We
didn’t know their bodies were even anatomically capable of that!

Someone
else said, “Well that looks like 


to me.” But that’s just ridiculous. Skipping? Is the City Council
leaving town on another vacation? What put them in such a good mood?

More
on this as it develops.

And
now, a word from our sponsor. Here with that is Deb, a sentient patch
of haze…and also, I think, our ad sales manager here at the
station.


Oh, I don’t work for the station.


But you regularly provide me with copy for our live spots. Oh, and
you also read ads from various companies on the air. Do you work for
an ad agency?


Cecil, please.


But this is my show. If you don’t actually work at the station, or
for the companies you’re pitching, I’d kind of like to know who you
work for.


Shhh. Not everything can be an emergency.

Okay,
then.

Human
listeners, today’s show is brought to you by Pfizer. What does Pfizer
do? What 


Pfizer do?

Whoo!
All the things Pfizer can help you with! We can’t even begin to
describe it to you.

You
know what? Pfizer is indescribable. How can you put it into words
what Pfizer does? You can’t. You wouldn’t. No, you you absolutely
would not. You would not dare describe what we do.

You’re
still trying to describe us in your mind, aren’t you? Maybe Pfizer
wasn’t articulate enough. Maybe Pfizer can’t trust you. You have
betrayed  Pfizer. Don’t say no.

Did
you just say no?

Why
are you always arguing with us!?! We give, and give, and give, and we
never ask for anything other than money in return. We only ask for
money, and that you try not to describe us in words! And what do you
do? You give us lots of money, but you 


try to describe us in words!

Pfizer.
We can’t even with this right now.

Oh,
stop!


It sounds like you work for the pharmaceutical industry…


No, not you too, Cecil! I can’t be here anymore!


Wow! The door didn’t even move. I’m not even sure how she slammed it.

Listeners,
I’m being – 


– I’m being distracted. Uh, intern Kareem has been pestering me to
allow him to go skating. Since Station Management seems to be out of
the office, he thinks 


is the perfect time to take a long break and go check out the new
Desert Flower Skating Rink.

Uhh…okay,
I’m gonna let you go, Kareem, but only because it’s a 

. I want a full report on
the new facility, okay? This is still your work time, Kar– 


Oh.
He just skated away. I need to sit him down and talk to him about
professionalism. And where he got cool skates like those. They had
lightning bolts on ‘em.

But
first, we’ve just received a call from a controversial figure.
Calling in from the jailhouse (I presume), while on trial.

Listeners,
let’s go now to an exclusive interview with literal five-headed
dragon Hiram McDaniels.

Hello,
Hiram.


Howdy, Cecil. Uh, thanks for letting me on your show. I just, uh,
wanted to call in and…y'know, clear up a few things about this
trial.


My understanding is that the jury is not all human. It’s a jury of
peers, Hiram.

 Well, now, uh, my green
head is speaking metaphorically.

 

 Yeah, like that.

The
thing is, Cecil, uh, they are using computers to simulate five-headed
dragons on the jury, but now they’re saying that a single five-headed
dragon computer program counts as five separate jurors. So they’re
only making one computer and then choosing seven human jury members.
That hardly seems fair.

 They don’t respect us at
all.

 No, no they don’t, gray
head. They really don’t.

Plus,
no computer can recreate the complexities of sentient dragons.

 It’s offensive.

Cecil:
Well, I know they looked for actual
five-headed dragons, but there aren’t many out there that the city
can find.


Well, my sister Hadassah is in town. I think she should be
considered.


Family members of the accused generally aren’t allowed on juries. But
also, one of your heads, the violet one, is going to be a witness
against you at the trial. Uh, how are things going within your own
body?

 They’ve put a hole in my
cell wall so my violet head can be outside of the jail, since, uh, he
is not charged with any crime.

 I can hear you
conspiring against me!

 

 Hey, easy, Green. You’re
not allowed to talk to Violet anymore. It would be witness tampering.

 We shouldn’t even be
talking to the media. Our lawyer said anything we say can be used in
the trial.

 My blue head is right,
Cecil. I just wanted to use my phone call to get the word out about
the unfair practices going on in this trial.

 It is so unfair.


Well, I’ll certainly look into this. Uh, are you having an okay day
otherwise, Hiram?

 I sure am, Cecil. Eh,
despite my circumstances, everyone’s in pretty good spirits today.
They, uh, served raw lamb in the mess hall and they let us watch a
whole hour of the Lee Marvin marathon on the C-SPAN this afternoon.

 

 I think 

 was one of his more interesting roles. But yeah…Death Hunt
is pretty good.

 Lee Marvin is a lighthouse
in a stormy cinematic sea.

 I personally prefer


!

 

 All right there, Green.

Hey,
uh, thanks for taking my call, Cecil.


No, thank 

, Hiram.

We’re
getting good news from Teddy Williams down at the new skating rink
that there are record crowds. So many people are showing up to skate.
He didn’t realize how popular roller skating would be here.

We’re
also getting bad news from Teddy that all of the lights have gone
out. He’s hearing deep growls coming from not only the ghost pets in
the walls, but loud shouts and snarls coming from the skaters
themselves. He cannot see who it is, but he can definitely smell the
metallic briny stench of blood.

He
did not care to elaborate about how he is so familiar with the smell
of blood, just that he’s sort of an expert in the matter and it’s


, and
that no one else should come to the skating rink.

He
whispered all of this from underneath the turntable of the DJ booth.

He
reported seeing looming shadows in the near-black, the shadows of
hulking figures with what appeared to be either antlers or very
elaborate hats. He could feel the floor trembling beneath him, as if
there were a stampede of beasts or a clash of angry gods.

Williams
reported that he just once – 


– wants people to be able to play arcade games and skate and bowl
and drink sodas without fearing for their safety.

Listeners,



to the skating rink. And for those of you already there, 

! Do not come out from your
hiding place! Not even if they put on 

!

As
I wait for further news from Intern Kareem at the skating rink, let
me take you now to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Despite
having a terrifying start, the new skating rink sounds like a huge
success, and everyone seems to be having fun again.

It
is clear now what has happened.

Intern
Kareem said that when he arrived at the skating rink, he saw almost
everyone from Night Vale. Leann Hart from the Daily Journal, John
Peters (you know, the farmer?), Old Woman Josie, and the beings
Kareem insists on calling angels. Judge Siobhan Azdaq, even the City
Council was there! Their black cases were all opened, revealing white
retro skates with thick red and blue piping.

It
was a feel-good atmosphere on a feel-good day.

Kareem
bought a soda, filled it with every flavor from the fountain, and put
his bag in a locker. “

” by Janelle Monáe was on and he raced to the floor to
have his first skate to his favorite song, only to see a group of
hulking figures with elaborate hats enter. Kareem stopped dead in his
tracks, standing and shivering in front of this menacing group.

Kareem
had never seen them before, but he recognized them immediately by
their sound and their smell as the management of this radio station.

Kareem
stiffened up and prepared an explanation, that he was here to work,
uh, to report on the new skating rink, and– and that he was 


slacking. But Station Management did not seem to notice him. They
were gazing across the room at the City Council who, by this point,
had all donned short shorts and headbands, and were twirling and
spinning in unison around the rink.

Just
as Beyoncé’s “

”
started playing, the City Council and Station Management all made eye
contact. Station Management and City Council skated toward each
other, and everything went dark. The record player scratched, and all
went quiet…save for horrifying growls and animal screeching.

Kareem
could smell something briny and metallic, like olives.

While
everyone scrambled to hide in fear, Kareem – himself a young man in
a new relationship – knew exactly what was going on. He put on the
night vision goggles we require every one of our interns to carry at
all times, and he watched as Station Management and the City Council
met in the middle of the rink, joining arms, skating in slow happy
circles, intermittently placing heads on shoulders, wanting to sneak
kisses, but uncertain of the right moments, dozens of figures with


 of fingers
all intertwined in defiance of our understandings of physical
dimension, sighing hotly with romantic need and burning anticipation.

The
City Council had brought live rodents, and they held them up gingerly
to Station Management’s mouths, as Management chewed off pieces of
the screaming creatures. When Station Management finished devouring
the last bites, the City Council adorably brushed pieces of tail and
fur from Station Management’s face, letting their fingertips
(or…whatever it is at the end of whatever those appendages are)
linger.

After
a few circles around the rink, Management and the Council left
together.

The
aftermath of their budding romance is clear among the brand new
polished hardwood floor of the skating rink, swirling hearts strung
together, carved into the wood with their wheels.

The
lights are back on now. Everyone is skating again. The stereo is
blasting Parliament’s “

” with Hanson’s “

”
coming up next.

As
a person in a long-term relationship, I know how fulfilling long love
can be. I also remember the days of being single, and that is also
fulfilling. But nothing is quite so thrilling, so unexpected and
uncertain, as that moment in between those two states – single and
in love. That short fire burst of irrational passion for a
person…or people…or multidimensional entities you barely know but
with whom you maybe want to be with always?

You
know the thrall of hopeless wanting, where you long to hold the other
so tightly as to become one. You think it is love, even when it is
not. Love is patient, and understanding, and turbulent, and
rock-like, ever confident in itself. But this early infatuation,
these addictions to a new other, are some of life’s most fragile and


 moments.

Well…I’m
so happy for City Council and Station Management. They make a
cute…couple.

Kareem
said that he also saw former intern Maureen, her 

,
and some boy in a hoodie all brooding in the corner. Maureen appeared
to be making sardonic jokes at the expense of the new couple, and at
the expense of the idea of dating itself.

Kareem
said the dog was really cute, but there was something about the sight
of Maureen and the hooded boy and the puppy that upset him. I told
Kareem, “No, she’s always like that.”

Stay
tuned next for the best hits of the 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 2000s,
2010s, 2020s, and beyond.

And
as always, goodnight Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 83 - One Normal Town


Breathe in. Breathe out. Breathe in.
Breathe out. Don’t breathe. Don’t breathe. Don’t breathe. Don’t
breathe.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Our neighboring town of Desert Bluffs
is no more. It has been swept from the map. Its borders, a bad
memory. Its name, a forgotten joke.

Oh, listeners, I have long dreamed of
saying these words, although the circumstances are different than I
could have ever foreseen.

Mayor Cardinal announced today that –
after months of extending loans and other budgetary aid to the
struggling community – her and Mayor Cardozo of Desert Bluffs
agreed that the path to financial stability lay in (I can’t believe
I’m saying this) 

 the two towns.

As of this week, Night Vale’s borders
will extend to include the dumb buildings that used to belong to
Desert Bluffs, and all the weirdos that for some reason chose to live
there.

Dana said that she understood there
would be some adjustment needed from everyone, and then went on to
say some other stuff that didn’t really matter because apparently
it’s 

 that Desert Bluffs
is now part of Night Vale, and no one has a problem with that, and
that’s OK. It’s fine. 

.

Our
new sheriff, Sam, who has been an outspoken opponent to the monetary
aid given to Desert Bluffs because of the strain it puts on law
enforcement budgets, reacted as expected. At a press conference, they
expressed their 


displeasure in this development by singing selections from Richard
Foreman’s Tony Award-winning Broadway musical, “

” while weeping copiously.

In
response to follow-up questions from the attending journalists, Sam
quietly said, “Listen. I just need this right now, okay?” before
vowing that they would continue their strong opposition to the
mayor’s plan for unification, and then softly crying a little more.

And
now, traffic.

There
once was a farmer who never much thought of leaving his land. He was
comfortable where he was, and comfortable with only ever being merely
comfortable.

He
had no close friends, although a few people at the farmer’s market
knew who he was.

“Yes,
I know who he is,” one of them might have said, although none of
them ever did. None of them were ever asked.

One
night, as he was sitting down alone to dinner, he heard a loud party
happening out in his field. Music, conversation, laughter. More
confused than annoyed, he went out to see who could have set up a
party in his remote field.

But
there was no one there.

Instead,
the party now sounded as though it were coming from his house. He ran
back in, now afraid he was dealing with intruders.

But
there was no one there.

The
sound of the party was again coming from outside. Not from his
fields, but from the empty stretch of road that led from nowhere much
to his little farm (which was also nowhere much). He went out to the
road.

But
there was nothing.

The
sound of the party was now just over a gentle slope in the road. He
followed it.

Nothing.

Then
it was just around the corner. Then, where those trees covered the
road in shadow. He followed and followed the sound, each time finding
that he was 

 but


 to its
source.

And
he never came back to his farm again.

“I
have no idea what happened to him,” one of the folks at the
Farmer’s Market might have said, although none of them ever did. None
of them were ever asked.

This
has been traffic.

The
Ralph’s supermarket announced a small change to their sales
structure, indicating that they will no longer be following the
“bring food you want up to the cashier and pay for it” model that
has been played out for years now, and instead will be structuring
themselves as the world’s first auction supermarket.

Any
citizen looking to buy food from Ralph’s will have to come to one of
their daily scheduled auctions and bid on the kitchen staples and
snacks as they are brought up for auction one by one.

For
instance, Lot 402 might be a banana, while Lot 403 might be a bag of
Sun Chips and a bottle of tomato juice.

Charlie
Baer, new weekday shift manager at the Ralph’s, said, “We believe
this will be a more exciting and fun way for consumers to get the
food they need. And to pay more for it. A 


more,” he continued. “In competition with others, so that if you
don’t get that peanut butter, somebody else will. And then they’ll
have peanut butter and you won’t. Better open up those wallets and
make sure you get the food you need.”

Fortunately
for me, Carlos tends to do our shopping, since I personally have…a
little trouble with auctions, due to some traumatic experiences in my
past. I mean, I know that, as the saying goes, “past performance is
not a predictor of future results,” but still…I think I’ll sit
these auctions out.

As
part of the launch event for the auction system, Ralph’s employees
will stand on the supermarket’s roof, pelting passers-by with water
balloons and expired produce, and drunkenly chanting the lyrics to
every 

 song in unison, until they have run out of breath and,
eyes locked with each other, with hunched-over panting silence,
continue to mouth the lyrics they no longer have the breath to say.

Back
now to the news.

The
dissolve of Desert Bluffs into Night Vale continues. It’s not only
new people, but new ways of life.

Dave
Morales Cariño, a former Desert Bluffs resident, announced the
founding of the first-ever Joyous Congregation of the Smiling God
here in Night Vale, on an old industrial stretch of the eastern
expressway.

Night
Vale is a proud city of bloodstone worshipers, but certainly there
are many in town who know of the…power of the Smiling God, and
belief and worship in the Smiling God is not a new thing here. In
fact, a few long-time Night Vale residents attended the inaugural
service at the Joyous Congregation’s church, located in a storefront
that used to sell leaf blowers and leaf blower accessories.

The
City Council said that sales from their bloodstone factory have
fallen by as much as one percent, and that this is totally not okay
with them.

“We’re
seeing someone now,” they said, in a high-pitched whiny voice. “And
it’s just not a good time for us to be losing any income! Mayor
Cardinal won’t let us 


the Joyous Congregation, but we urge you to stick to the traditional
worship of bloodstone circles. Like your mother, and your
grandmother, and the lizard people before her.”

Paul
Birmingham, local community activist who lives in a lean-to behind
the library, wanted everyone to know that he was against it.

When
questioned what he was against, specifically, he shrugged and said “I
don’t know. 

. All of
it. Or, some of it. The bad parts. Totally opposed. Not a fan at
all,” he concluded.

He
waved signs, all of which just said “No.”

Paul
has a long history of political activism in Night Vale, starting with
his “oregano should be legal” campaign that he waged ferociously
for the better part of the 80s, only giving it up when he found out
that oregano already was legal.

Then
he shifted into environmental activism, marching every day in front
of City Hall to draw attention to his controversial “What if I see
as red, is what you see as blue? What if color isn’t even real?”
campaign.

More
recently, he had joined the Air-Filled Earth Society, the group that
believes the earth is a precariously inflated orb that could pop or
deflate at any moment.

Now,
he seems to have dropped all of his previous specific beliefs for the
more general stance of negativity without target. A “no” directed
at nothing.

Reporters
report his breath sighed. Reporters report his shoulders sagged.
Reporters report his shouting waned, his signs drooped. Paul wiped
his brow.

“Just…something
has to be true, you know?” he said. “Somewhere in all of this,
something 

 to be


!”

He
squinted at the sky before concluding, “I still can’t see them. I
wish I could. Then maybe I would understand.”

He
wandered back to his lean-to, seeming to have grown years older, his
defiance burned out of him.

And
now, a word from our sponsors.

Today’s
show is sponsored by a happy-looking dog that’s woofing and wagging
his tail.

He
just wants you to play, or to pet him! Or maybe, just to stop feeling
sad for a moment. He wants what’s best for 

,
even if he doesn’t know that he wants it. His instincts have been
tinkered with, made to align with your interests. And now, his
happiness is yours.

He’s
a big-eyed, woofing dog, and he’s dancing from paw to paw because
he’s so excited to make your life better.

Are
you about to take him for a walk? Oh, no! Did someone say the W word?
Did the physical needs of an animal companion force someone to also
go outside and move their body, both things that will chemically make
them feel better?

What
a convenient system. What a good boy!

What
a good boy.

This
has been brought to you by a happy-looking dog that’s woofing and
wagging his tail.

Breaking
news: The Sheriff’s Secret Police and the City Council have taken
unilateral action to disunite Night Vale and Desert Bluffs. The
sheriff, backed by the hulking figures of the City Council, led a
fleet of Secret Police cars into neighborhoods that used to be Desert
Bluffs, announcing that all these buildings were now Night Vale’s,
and that everyone living there needed to go.

“Nothing
against you 

,”
the sheriff said as their Secret Police chased after former Desert
Bluffs citizens with what could be described as comically-sized
potato sacks, if it weren’t for the grim seriousness with which the
police conducted their chase.

The
former Desert Bluffs citizens started to flee, panic set pale and
glistening on their faces. But they stopped when they saw yet another
car coming at them from the other direction.

Black
sedan, tinted windows, unmistakably governmental.

It
pulled directly in front of the sheriff’s group, bringing everyone to
a momentary confused halt.

Out
of the car stepped Mayor Cardinal. She looked around at the scene as
it lay. She couldn’t have seemed younger or more tired. She took a
slow, deliberate breath.

“Go
home, Sam,” she said to the sheriff. “Go home, all of you.”

The
sheriff looked around at their police officers for support, and then
shouted back, “You can’t stop us, Dana. We will drive these people
out of 

 town.”

“No,
Sam,” she said. “You won’t. You won’t because it’s 


town too, now. You won’t because there’s nowhere else they should go.
You won’t because it’s a bad thing to do and I think, somewhere in
there, you aren’t a bad person. Maybe I’m wrong about that, wouldn’t
be the first time. But primarily, you won’t,” she concluded,
“because I won’t let you.”

And
she folded her arms, and she said nothing more.

The
Secret Police still held their potato sacks, unsure now of what they
should do. Their sheriff no longer ordered, or even goaded, but just
stared thoughtfully at their mayor.

The
former citizens of Desert Bluffs stopped fleeing, looking back at
this first figment of hope.

And
then the sheriff got in their car, turned it around, and drove away.
The Secret Police all got in their cars and followed. The City
Council roared and stomped but, without the police to back them up,
they too eventually retreated.

And
still Dana stood, silent, arms folded, until the last of them was
gone. She turned to the new citizens of Night Vale who had, moments
before, been fleeing.

“Hi,”
she said. “I’m Dana. Don’t hesitate to get in touch if you have any
problems, okay?”

She
got back in her car. She, too, left.

I…uh…I–
I– I don’t know where I stand on this scene, as it just unfolded. I
need to think about it. While I think about it, let’s go to the
weather.

[“

” by 

]

Here’s
what. We all have our regionalisms. For instance, in many parts of
the country, there is a sandwich, known as a sub sandwich, that is in
other places known as a hero, a hoagie, a grinder, a longburger, a
prince’s delight, or a bread burrito.

This
is one example of a difference in culture. There are others.

It
is in these little details that we see ourselves, that we define how
we are 

 others, and
thus how we 


ourselves.

When
confronted with someone whose “normal” is not 


“normal,” we are forced to confront the most frightening prospect
of all: that there is 


as “normal.” Just the accidental cultural moment we happened to
be born into, a cultural happenstance that never existed before, and
will never exist again.

Our
idea of “normal” is a city built on sand. For instance, for us,
our city is literally built on sand and this is our “normal.” We
resist difference because it requires we acknowledge that the culture
we grew up with as “normal” is just a momentary accident. It
requires we accept that the world we were born into will never be the
same as the world we die in. The longer we live, the more we become
interlopers, even in our home towns. But, if we’d let it happen,
also, the more we will learn.

I…cannot
say I am always happy about Desert Bluffs. It can be said that I have
ranted about them on the radio, sometimes for hours, while listeners
called in to complain that they wanted me to talk about something
(

) else. I
have thrown things at the microphone, and attempted to cast spells
upon Desert Bluffs that would drive them into ruin.

But
my happiness, or unhappiness, is…irrelevant to their existence.
They exist. And so do I. And now our differing “normals,” in such
close proximity, perhaps will edge just 


toward each other.

Night
Vale may never again be the Night Vale I knew, but it will be some
kind of Night Vale. It will be a version of our town that someday,
someone will look back on and think, “Those were the days! That was
what was normal!” And that person will be wrong. And that person
will be right.

Stay
tuned next for tomorrow’s winning lottery numbers, broadcast to
everyone simultaneously, and so reducing each jackpot share to a
small but fair amount.

And,
from a town that isn’t the town it was before, and then won’t be the
town it has become, and then will change again, and then again after
that, and all of them the same town, and all of them 


town:

Goodnight,
Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 84 - Past Time


Dress for success. Put on your tall
hat and rubber gloves and long gray coat. Success requires this
specific outfit.

Welcome to Night Vale.

It’s spring again, which apparently
means it’s baseball season.

My brother-in-law Steve…

…Steve and
I took his stepdaughter Janice for Little League baseball tryouts
this weekend. Steve and Janice play catch a lot together. She really
loves the sport. It’s actually pretty adorable.

She shouts things like, “Go
farther, Steve, I wanna see how far I can throw the ball!”

And 


shout things like, “Keep going, Steve! See how far away you can
go!”

The
tryouts were at the haunted baseball diamond over near the Shambling
Orphan housing development. There were a lot of kids there. Say what
you will about all the people from Desert Bluffs moving to Night Vale
(and I’ve said many things), but it’s created 


growth in youth sports. There are leagues for kids with all kinds of
interests and abilities.

Janice
tried out for a wheelchair softball league, the first of its kind in
Night Vale.

Plus,
I got to spend time talking to Little League baseball coaches Betty
Lucero and Lucia Tereschenko. Lucia is a fascinating woman, so
despite having to be around Steve all day, I had a pretty good time.

More
on that in a bit. But first, the news.

In a
study released today, the Greater Night Vale Medical Community has
found a statistical link between a high-carbohydrate diet and the
number of squirrels on your lawn.

According
to the study, they found that people who take in a higher than normal
number of carbohydrates have an average of 4.74 squirrels somewhere
on their lawn, but those with lower carb intake have a slightly
different number of squirrels.

A
representative from the Greater Night Vale Medical Community said,
“You can see from this pie chart,” and here the representative
pointed at an American flag, “that the data shows a statistical
link between these things.”

Another
representative, who was previously unnoticed, then emerged from
behind the first representative and stated, “It is important that
you adjust your carbohydrate intake and/or your trust/distrust of
squirrels accordingly.”

The
first representative then did a set of 12 push-ups, the kind where
you clap your hands between each one.

“Believe
us. We’re doctors,” a 


representative said as she lowered herself down head-first from the
ceiling at the back of the room. As everyone turned to see her, she
said, “Just kidding!” and then the three representatives began
juggling and doing yo-yo tricks to hip hop music.

And
now it’s time for another edition of “Hey there, Cecil!”

“Hey
there, Cecil! I just moved into a new apartment, and after two
months, my landlord is telling me I’m behind on rent. But I’ve been
paying my rent. On the last day of each month, I carry a 20-stone bag
of quartz chips and two pheasant carcasses, and lay them outside his
office. What am I doing wrong?

“Also,
what 

 the currency
these days?

“Signed,
In Debt in Old Town.”

Hey
there, In Debt!

Well,
I think you’re in the wrong here. Quartz and dead pheasants are not
currency. They have not been legal tender since the 1990s. So, you
are in arrears on your rent. Here’s what I would do:

Write
a nice note to your landlord explaining you didn’t understand how
money works. Then, maybe find a different job, where they pay you in
actual American currency – which has no physical form, and is just
a series of arbitrary numbers printed on ATM receipts. Hope this
helps.

“Hey
there, Cecil! I love dogs a 

.
The other day, I saw a young couple out walking the cutest little
beagle puppy. I asked if I could pet him, they didn’t say anything
but the dog had the sweetest expression, so I pet the dog.

“The
couple didn’t speak or move. She just glared at me. The boy was
smiling. And as the dog licked my hand I asked the boy, ‘what’s your
dog’s name?’ and the boy laughed. It was a cruel, hollow laugh.

“And
I pet the dog once more and they left, and I can’t get that dog out
of my head. I’m 


about it now. Terrible dreams! Terrible dreams where I cannot move. I
wake physically incapacitated and crying. When I can finally move I
run to the bathroom needing to vomit, but unable. I am covered in
cold, cold sweat but my face is on fire! I hunch over the sink,
spitting up small globs of black tar, 

.

“So
my question is, should I get a dog? And if so, is a beagle a good
breed?

“Signed,
Dog Lover in Downtown.”

Hey
there, Dog Lover! You should 


get a dog! You sound allergic to beagles, so maybe a Basset instead.

“Hey
there, Cecil! What are you doing Saturday night at, say, 8 pm? Would
you be interested in an opera and drinks after?

“Signed,
Lonely Boy in the Laboratory.”

Hey
there, Lonely Boy! Yes! I would 


like an opera, and…whatever else after.

And
now, back to the tryouts.

Coach
Lucia Tereschenko told me she’d been seeing more and more of
those…


lately. And she does not like them.

“They
stand and stare at the kids. At the coaches, at the parents, just
breathing. Not moving, or speaking. Them, I do not like, “ Lucia
said.

“At
first I thought they were from this Desert Bluffs, so many of those
people coming to Night Vale, but Desert Bluffs families play in the
baseball league now. I meet them, they are nice people. They are 


people. They do not stand and stare and breathe,” Lucia said.

“These
strangers…they are from someplace else. Not here, not Desert
Bluffs, They are not humans! They are not even ghosts. Believe me, I
should know,” Lucia said, and then laughed. “Get it? Because I am
dead?”

I
told Lucia I got it, but she continued.

“I’m


, Cecil! Is funny!
Laugh, okay? I am a ghost.”

And
so I laughed. It 


genuinely funny.

But
then she went suddenly solemn.

“Oh,
these strangers. They remind me of those terrible men on the train.”

I
asked Lucia, “


men on the train?”

But
just then an errantly thrown baseball bounced to a stop at Lucia’s
feet. She bent over to pick it up but – being a ghost – her hands
went right through it.

“Ach!
Cecil, some days I can pick up the ball, some days I cannot. Can you
help?”

I
picked up the baseball and threw it back to the child, who nearly
fell over running, but caught it nonetheless. And Lucia said, “You
still have a good arm, Cecil! You were a great shortstop.”

I
told her I don’t remember playing baseball, and she laughed and said
“Well, you know what they say about growing old. Memory is the
second thing to go.”

I
asked, “What’s the first?”

“Relevance,”
she said quickly. “Relevance.”

Listeners,
sorry I have to interrupt my story. We’re getting another call from
Hiram McDaniel, literal five-headed dragon and former mayoral
candidate. Hiram is in the jailhouse for  attempting to kill our
current mayor, and he’s on our phones now.

Hiram?
Hello?


Cecil? It– It’s me, Hiram’s violet head.


Hello, Violet! Listeners, it was Hiram’s violet head who courageously
turned in his other four heads for their crimes against the mayor.
Violet, how are you?


They cut a hole in the cell where our main body and our other four
heads are! My head is poking out of the hole and into the fresh air!
Technically, I’m not in jail, but I’m also not free! I think I’ve
made a mistake.


You did the right thing, Violet. Your other four heads wanted to kill
the mayor.


There are five of us, but there is one of us.


I’m not sure I follow.


Do I contradict myself? Very well, then I contradict myself! I am
large. I contain multitudes!


Ah, ha-ha! My favorite line from 

!


Cecil, I’ve removed myself as a witness for the prosecution. I stand
with my other heads. I– I stand with and for myself!


And it sure is nice to have you back, Purp– sorry, you are 


purple, you are Violet. I respect that.


Thanks, gold head!


Injustice makes me sad.


We’re gonna do our best, Gray. We’re gonna do our best.


They are shackling and muzzling us for our own trial, Cecil! They
think our green head is 


in his threats!


Cecil, I– I cannot be separated from myself. I– I may disagree
with myself, but I am in this all together!


Violet, I don’t know if…


But listen, Cecil. If Night Vale knew the trouble they were in,
they’d let us out so we could help fight these strangers.


Oh, believe me, Hiram, the new sheriff is working double-time to get
rid of the Desert Bluffs– 



Not Desert Bluffs people, Cecil. They’re harmless hard-working folks.
I’m talking about the 

,
the ones that don’t move. The ones that breathe. You tell your mayor
friend I can stop 'em.


We’re not strong enough.


They would be quite resistant to our fire, and even our strength.

 I will fight with
you, Green! Y– you too, Gold and Gray and Blue! We can do this. We
can do this! But– but– but– but Cecil, we need out of this
prison.


Uh, I don’t know what 


can do about that, Hiram.

 I’m sure you’ll think of
somethin’. We’re gonna make it through this. Thanks, buddy!


Well, then.

Let’s
have a word from our sponsor.

Today’s
show is brought to you by the Dove Campaign for Real Beauty.
Super-real beauty. Beauty so real you won’t even recognize it as your
own.

Like
a set of human lungs, on a white table. So real, 


beautiful. Most people have lungs, expanding, contracting, attached
to nothing. Just lungs. On a white table.

Most
beauty products won’t show you what a set of human lungs look like,
because they think you can’t handle real beauty. They will photoshop
out the models’ lungs, leaving a gaping gory hole in their chests.
But an empty upper-rib cavity is 


what a real person looks like. No. We look like this. A pair of lungs
breathing autonomously on a white table in a white room with music
playing. 


music. Mostly choir and keyboards, you know the drill. Don’t gotta
tell 

 about
inspirational music, am I right?

Dove.
Lungs on a white table.

Little
League coach Lucia Tereschenko told me the incredible story of her
journey to Night Vale.

When
she was a young woman, she left her home to travel west across
America. She wanted to find a new life for herself, out of the
crowded smoke-choked cities. She walked for miles, picking up work in
roadside towns. She rode in carriages when she had money, and she
eventually found a job making belts for an old tanner who worked
Lucia long hours for little pay.

The
old tanner was otherwise kind, and treated Lucia like her very own
daughter, because she never had a family. But the tanner grew ill,
and Lucia took care of her, bathing her and fetching herb mixtures
from the apothecary.

One
morning the old woman was no more. Lucia ran her business for a while
longer, but since the tanner had no heirs, and Lucia did not feel she
had found her true home, she continued west, where there was
supposedly golden sunshine along an azure sea.

Soon,
however, she once again was in desperate need of money so that she
could eat, and could sleep in safety. She met some men. Silent men.
Men who kept their faces in shadows, who kept their voices in
shadows, who kept their guns in shadows. And she worked for them,
never knowing what her job was – just that she was to ride the
train with them until the time was right.

One
afternoon, the men stood up simultaneously and moved in different
directions: one to the front of the train, one to the rear. One
climbed through the ceiling onto the roof of the car. Two more drew
pistols on the passengers. They told Lucia to keep everyone calm.

The
train whined to a halt, and the men hurriedly unloaded crates from
the rear car onto a horse-drawn cart. The crates were warm, warmer
than the air around them. They smelled sharp and earthy, like freshly
ground cinnamon.

The
apparent sheriff of the little town the stopped in, the town of Night
Vale, a place she’d never heard of, soon arrived. He was wearing a
welding mask and a cowboy hat. The sheriff drew his gun on the
shadowy men but, being out numbered, he was unable to do much to stop
them.

So,
while calming the others on the train, Lucia crept behind one of the
men. He had a kerchief drawn across is face (not an actual kerchief
tied in front of his face, but a simulacrum of patterned fabric
hand-drawn on his face). Using one of her leather belts, Lucia
whipped the gun out of his hand and deftly picked it up from the
ground. She fired at the outlaws, felling both.

Outside,
the sheriff felled two more.

But,
as she climbed up the top of the car, she heard a shot from just
below her. And then she was lying on her back. She couldn’t remember
why she had laid down. She saw, in the sky just above her, a dark
planet of awesome size, lit by no sun. She didn’t know how she had
not noticed it before. It was 

.
An invisible titan, all thick black forests and jagged mountains and
deep turbulent oceans.

And
then…well, let me take you first to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

I
asked Lucia if that’s how she died.

“Well,
one moment I’m in a gunfight,” she said, “and the next moment I’m
a ghost.”

She
asked if I had a cigarette. I don’t smoke, so I sad no.

“Meh,
I couldn’t hold it anyway,” she admitted.

“Why
are you living in a baseball diamond,” I asked her.

She
said this wasn’t always a baseball diamond, it was just a field. A
field where train tracks used to run. A field where a train once
rolled to a stop.

But,
right around this time the game of baseball was becoming popular, and
kids began coming to the filed to play. Lucia watched, and learned,
and grew to love the sport’s simplicity and structured grace.

“It’s
a beautiful game, Cecil! So I started trying to coach the kids, but
since I’m translucent and hazy, they got scared and ran away, calling
this the 'haunted baseball diamond.’ Over time, the kids realized I
had some helpful things to say about batting stances, and hitting the
cutoff man, so they came back.”

Lucia
turned to one of the kids. “Eye on the ball, Manny!” she shouted.

I
asked Lucia, “So, you think those men on the train were related to
these strangers in Night Vale now?”

“You
do not see evil like that very often,” she said. “But no. Those
men on the train performed their evil because they needed whatever
was in those crates more than they needed life, or peace,” she
said. “These strangers? They don’t 


anything. They are evil, for evil’s own sake.”

I
looked over and saw Steve and Janice coming my way. They were high
fiving and grinning.

Lucia
said, “She’s a good kid, good arm. She’s going to be a great
shortstop like her uncle!”

I
told Lucia I hope we have a good baseball season, and it was
wonderful catching up with her. Steve, Janice, and I turned to walk
back to Steve’s van.

Lucia
whispered to me, “We’re past time for hope, Cecil. They’re no
longer coming. They’re 

.
And we cannot stop something that wants 

.”

Staring
straight at Janice, ignoring Lucia, I said, “You made the team!
Congrats! Let’s get ice cream!”

Behind
us, I heard a distant bark. It was a sweet, sickening yelp. And in
the reflection on the van window, I could see a boy in a hoodie,
holding a beagle puppy, and both of them were looking at us.

I
felt cold sweat, but my face was hot. My tongue was sticky and thick.

“Steve,
can we get a dog?” Janice said, all strapped in.

“Let’s
get that ice cream, okay?” I interrupted.

The
dog barked again, and I did not look. I did not look at anything as I
got in my seat and shut the door. I felt like throwing up.

“Thanks
for driving, Steve,” I said, putting my hand softly on his arm.

He
looked momentarily amused. No, not amused. Concerned. And we drove
away as Janice told us all about her new team.

Stay
tuned next for something lurking just outside your window. Don’t
worry, it’s not a human.

And
as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 85 - The April Monologues



Once again, the turning of the seasons. Nearly imperceptible
here, a shading of the desert heat. But we feel the change in the
thrum of our bodies, in the texture of the sand.

There is rain, once in a while. If
not here, then somewhere else, surely.

Wild spring has stepped in for her
stolid winter sister. It is April, and something is different. It is
April, and the days have depth and vibrance.

It is April.

And so, dear listeners, Night Vale
Community Radio is pleased to present The April Monologues.


Chad. Oh, Chad. I’m beginning to understand and…I wish I did not.

You
used to wear nice shirts. You cut your hair regularly. Sometimes,
while you slept, I would come in to keep it orderly and presentable
for the next morning. You would shower, and shave, and dress for your
internship. So plain and well kempt and precious, unaware of the
Faceless Old Woman Secretly Living In Your Home.

And
then, one day, you did not return home.

You
love your home. You rarely leave, not even to be with other people.
You play video games, and watched police dramas, and read books by
comedians. You’ve always loved your solitude, and I have always
thought you were special in how completely 


you seemed. Few young men are exactly what one thinks of when one
thinks of a young man.

You
were it, Chad. And I always looked out for you.

Remember
that terrible roach problem you had? You tried all kinds of traps and
poisons, but nothing worked? Only one day you returned home to find
thousands of roach corpses scattered across your floor, each one with
its legs tied and its head removed, and there was a hand-scrawled
note that said “They’ll not bother you again.”

That
was me. I did that.

Well,
I didn’t kill the roaches, that was the exterminator you called. He
was, very 

 at
his job. But 

 wrote
the note, Chad. That note was me.

We
had a good way about us. I lived secretly and facelessly in your
home, and you…well, you kind of did, too. Only, metaphorically.

But
then one night you didn’t return home.

I
saw in your emails (I loved reading your emails, Chad, so
compellingly bland) you had to go check out a used and discount
sporting goods store. Something for your work. But that store was not
what it claimed to be, and you didn’t return home for months. The
landlord came by in your long absence, but I scared her off with this
terrifying noise I can make using only a leather belt and a bird.

You
left your home, and I protected it for you.

But
when you returned, things were different. Oh, how different! Your
crisp button shirts all unbuttoned and wrinkled, dangling on hooks
like dried pelts from a misguided hunt.

These
days you rarely notice the little things I do. Like when I painted
the inside of your bathtub black, or glued blurry photos of spiders
into the bottom of your mugs. You don’t even play video games
anymore. You wear hoods and light candles. You drew a star in the
middle of your floor, which…actually, I can totally get behind.

Your
emails, which were once so wonderfully calm and full of mailing
lists, and then social invitations, and social invitation rejections,
and food delivery receipts, the tale of a stagnant nothing of a man,
so perfectly lovable in his comfy inertia…now they are terse, coded
messages to a girl I think you are destroying.

“Found
a door. Come over,” this one says.

“He
is here, and he is good,” this one says.

“Candles
are growing again,” this one says.

I do
not like these candles you have that grow when lit, and melt when
not. And I certainly do not like 

.

What
you brought to us here in this little town, 


town, the town I secretly live in, what you summoned…I stopped
secretly living in your house because I was afraid of it. But now I
have returned because I feel – unusual for me – some obligation
to do something, to prevent this coming disaster.

Listen
to me. It is five in the morning and you are asleep, but I am at your
ear quietly asking you – telling you – I’m begging you really,
Chad. Did you ever think that I would 


you? Beg 

? I
haven’t begged since I was a child aboard that wicked ship. Those men
didn’t listen either, Chad, which is the reason I lived at the bottom
of the ocean for so many years before this place, this desert, this
town, this apartment…

Chad,
what happened to you in that store that wasn’t a store? What did they
turn you into? What have you brought into this reality? Do you even
know the destruction that awaits this town? Not just this town,
perhaps the world? That is not a door you have opened, Chad.

When
is a door not a door?

When
it is a chasm.

I
know you cannot see or hear me, for I live secretly, but I beg you.
If somehow my voice seeps into your dreams and sticks in your memory,
you must undo what you have done, before it is too late. You must–

Chad?
That creature, that monster you summoned is here. It is staring at me
with eyes that could never be mistaken for human. It’s walking toward
me. How does it 


me, Chad? No one sees me!

Chad?!?
It is licking my hand! Stop it! It’s bringing me a tennis ball! The
puppy is bringing me a 

!
I will not play fetch with you, hound!

How
do you see me, you monster?

Chad?
We must undo– 


You
must undo what you have done. It means nothing but ill will to this
town, to this world, and most importantly, from my perspective, to a
Faceless Old Woman That Secretly Lives In Your Home.

Stop
staring at me, you unholy beast! There, beagle, go fetch your stupid
ball!


Growth turns our thoughts to decline. Each new sprout brings to mind
the decay out of which it grows. Each thing leads to its opposite.
Every moment contains multitudes. Every second is the history of the
universe, if taken at its composite parts.

Let
us take this moment at its composite parts. Break down this day into
each person’s thoughts. We return you now to The April Monologues.


I’ve been thinking lately about loneliness. Not because I’m lonely, I
just like to be ahead of the curve when it comes to thinking about
things. Ugh, obviously I’m not lonely. I’m Michelle Nguyen, owner of
the coolest (and only) record store in town, and I’m 


lonely! I’m just, like, a performance artist, and my medium is
solitude.

I’ve
been listening to a lot of hopcore lately. It’s my new favorite
genre. It’s recordings of a person hopping.

*Thump*
*Thump* *Thump*

…but
soft.

Totally
great. You wouldn’t have heard of it. Because I made it myself, and
I’ve shared it with no one. It’s a recording of me hopping. I
recorded that and I’m listening to it. It’s the new thing.

Maureen
came by. Nervous, jaw clenched, hair parted, hands fluttering,
stopping, restarting, sighing Maureen. She was looking for something
new to listen to, said things were stressful at her internship. She
had to led an army, or whatever? And she needed something that would
relax her.

I
suggested easy listening, like Slayer or some silence, but she said
she was tired of all the top 40 stations playing no sound at all.
Silence is too mainstream, and she wanted something new.

I’ll
be honest, I actually like silence. I shouldn’t; it’s, like, 


popular, but my favorite silence is the hum of a dryer from the next
floor down. I also like the swish of a highway that you thought was
too far away to hear, but now that it’s so quiet you can hear it,
distant and dissipating. Like, the sizzle of foam on a wave.

I
gave Maureen Leonard Cohen’s new album, the one where he talks in a
gravely voice and women sing along behind him. She rolled her eyes
and walked out. I think she liked it.

Hold
on.

It’s
like that old joke: I listen to Bach often but never the Beatles.

I



this hopcore recording! I made it on the old beige carpet of the back
office here at the store. I did it in socks so it would be extra
quiet. You have to hold still, like, even hold your breath to hear
it. But it’s there.

You
have to really pay attention to notice me, but I’m there.

I
don’t actually listen to Bach often. What a sellout! Did you see his
HBO special? Ugh! I didn’t, but I bet it was bad.

It’s
a quiet time for record sales. Usually it’s really busy, which is
annoying. I hate it when people who are, like, “Please, I want to
pay you a lot of money for physical albums!” It’s like, get in
line, you know? Get in that line. The one leading to the cash
register. I’ll ring you up when it’s your turn.

But
I’ve let the temporary staff dissolve back into mud for the season,
and I won’t have to mutter the incantations to bring them back to
life for another month or two. It’s just me, behind the counter. Me,
like always.

I’m
all I need. I’m the ultimate underground hit. No one’s heard of me.
No one’s listening. Just the way I like it.

He
left. His loss.

Maureen
came by. Steady, jaw tight, hair loose, hands swinging, shuffling,
restarting, sighing Maureen. She said she liked Leonard’s album, but
she had heard it enough now. What else did I have?

I
never thought I’d do this, but I gave her some of my favorite
recordings of bees. I 


those recordings! But I’ve listened to them enough times now that I
don’t ever need to hear them again. It’s like, the sound became part
of me, and I know it better than the recordings do, you know?

Hmm,
maybe you don’t know. Probably not. You’re probably still listening
to that Woody Guthrie single on repeat, because you just listen to
whatever “big music” tells you too.

Oh,
this is my favorite part of the hopcore recording. It’s the part
where the thump of my hopping gets so quiet that it isn’t any sound
at all. It’s a silence. And you have to know I’m there to recognize
me in the silence. That I’m still hopping, even though you can’t hear
it. Listen:

That’s
me in there, in that no sound at all. They say music is made up of
the spaces between the notes, and that life is made up of the moments
when your eyes are close because you’re blinking. And that books are
made up of blank pages that everyone pretends have words on them so
they’ll seem smart.

I’m
the blank. And the space. I’m the pause. I’m the gap.

Hold
on, I have a customer.

Ugh,
that person is the worst! Hold on, someone is actually coming in.

Oh!
It’s…I'll– I’ll be back.

Maureen
came by. Satisfied, jaw loose, hair up, hands idling, striding,
stopping, restarting, sighing Maureen. She said she loved the bees
recording. She wanted something like it, but even more so. Similar,
but so different that it would startle her.

I
knew exactly what she meant with that thirst, but I didn’t know how
to satisfy it. There’s only so much music, you know? And there’s so
much human desire.

Well,
you are not going to believe this. Probably, like, you won’t even
understand. I gave her the recording of me hopping. I know that,
like, ruins it because now someone else has listened to it, but
somehow I don’t mind if Maureen hears it. I think, maybe even I 


that. I hope she comes back soon.

I
mean, don’t get me wrong. I 


it when the record store is empty, when there are none of those
annoying customers clamoring for music to listen to. Being alone is
the best.

But
I also kind of like it when Maureen comes by. Her being here is cool
too, I guess.

I
just have to figure out what album to show her next. Only, there’s so
much good music, you know?


Each leads to the next. The seasons are a corridor we perceive
through, and the door at the end of the corridor is black and
depthless. Appreciate the warmth of this narrow corridor.

How
small this world is! And how small we all are for living in it. And
how joyful a smallness can be.

So
let us return, for one last time, for one last small time, to The
April Monologues.


I try to be helpful. I know I can’t always fix everything, I know my
limits (and they are many), but still…I try to be helpful.

So
when the kid came by, I did my best.

He
was scared, sure, because he could see them too. The glowing arrows
in the sky. Dotted lines and arrows and circles…see, the sky is a
chart that explains the entire world, and he could see it! That’s a
terrifying thing if you aren’t prepared for it.

Oh,
he was shaking so bad. His ball cap was pulled low over his face.

“Steve!”
he said. “Steve Carlsberg! I know you can see them too. Help me!”

And
I tried. I…I– I tried to be helpful.

I
like the evenings, when it’s quiet. In parts of the world, the big
cities, things don’t change much from morning to afternoon to
evening. The same even light, the same people in a hurry. But here,
every time of day has a different tone and shade.

In
the mornings, before anyone else is up, the desert is golden, and the
horizon light illuminates every detail on the mountains to the west.

I
feel bad for the folks who don’t believe in mountains, who won’t see,
even when shown.

Then
the birds come and hop around outside the kitchen window. Oh, I like
to watch them as I make coffee. My brother-in-law, he never sees the
birds on account of he likes to grind the coffee himself, and the
pounding of his coffee hammer keeps all the birds away. But me? I
don’t mind the pre-hammered stuff. It’s a soft trade for the birds.

And
then the afternoon, when the light deepens and widens, and the
mountains turn to blue cutouts against a white-blue sky!

And
then the sunset, loud and fragrant, like sunsets usually are.

And
then the evening, a vast, quiet empty. Just me and Abbey and Janice,
floating, and island of a family in the rich darkness of the desert
nothing.

The
kid was 


scared! Oh, boy. But he had it in him. He tries to be helpful too, I
can tell! And so it wasn’t enough to know. He wanted to do something
about it.

He
said that he’d been sent to a sporting goods store that they thought
might have been a front for the World Government. I know that place.
The World Government isn’t the half of it! Go in that sporting goods
store, you’re gonna find a 


racket!

Ha-ha-ha-ha!
I love puns!

But
yeah, that place holds the core of it. And this kid, he goes in there
and he 


it! And once you’ve seen it, once you know, you can’t ever not know.
You can’t become who you once were after you’ve become what you are
now.

Glowing
arrows in the sky, dotted lines. He understood, like I understand.

The
folks that run Night Vale, they think they have control. But you
can’t control what a person knows! The more you think you have that
contained, the more it eludes you. You might as well try to control
the weather.

And
they try to do that, too, using cloud seeding, drones, and laser
arrays. But it never works out the way they planned.

“What
can we do about it?” the boy kept asking. Poor kid.

I
wish my brother-in-law took better care of his interns at the radio
station. Didn’t send them to places they had no right being, like
sporting good stores run by the World Government. But it’s not up to
me. I suppose Cecil can run his life the way he wants, and he won’t
ever hear from me about it. Not like the other way around, I suppose.

The
kid understood how the world worked. He could see the structure of it
and, oh, bless him, he wanted to fix it! To make it right again. And
he wanted me to tell him how.

“Not
much we can do but understand,” I told him. “Not much to do but


.”

But
he wouldn’t accept it. He wanted to follow those glowing arrows in
the sky like they were a map to somewhere, and not a labyrinth in
which a monster lives.

“Listen,”
I said. “

,
Chad,” I said. “I think, in time, you’ll feel better. Hey, maybe
get a puppy!” I told him. “We had a puppy infestation a few years
back, hell on the insulation and some load-bearing joists, but it was
just the 


thing!”

“Yes,”
he said. “Summon a puppy!”

“Well,”
I said, “Sure, or just 


a puppy. Like, ‘adopt’ is probably the word you’re looking for,” I
said. “Adopt a puppy, sure. They smile, and wag their tails, and
roll around, very cute!” I said.

“This
is how we will change things,” he said. “Summon a puppy. The
World Government will never see it coming!”

And
he thanked me and walked away.

Oh,
well. At least he’s not a station intern anymore. I’m sure he’ll be
fine. What’s the worst that could happen? Ha-ha.

I
sat out on the porch the rest of the day, just thinking, watching the
wide light of afternoon narrow back down to the west, until I could
smell the sunset coming. And then I went inside. It was Abby’s turn
to make dinner, and it looked delicious! Oh-ho!

Maybe
I should get a puppy, too. Add one more to our island of a family. A
puppy could be just the thing. Janice would love it!

But



a puppy like that kid has now. I think, perhaps, that that’s no puppy
at all. Maybe it was a mistake, my conversation with him. But what
can I say? I try to be helpful.


And so we reach the end of The April Monologues. There is much that
could be said. I will say none of it.

Episode 86 - Standing and Breathing


I believe the children are our
future. They are also our past and our present. This is how children
work in linear time.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Mayor Dana Cardinal announced that
last night’s air raid sirens were nothing to be alarmed by. Nor are
the missing street and highway signs, nor are the angry people who
were assigned to hold the signs and wave them about, using the
maritime telegraphic language of semaphore, and who are now standing
around dumbfounded and empty-handed. Nor should we yet concern
ourselves with mailboxes, which have all been filled with what postal
workers 

 is just hair
gel.

Following
a meeting with the sheriff and the City Council, Mayor Cardinal says
she believes this all to be the work of pranksters – perhaps the
return of the feral dogs, who once defaced several concrete walls
with libertarian street art – but the mayor and the Secret Police
are not ruling out more sinister activity.

Sheriff
Sam added, while whittling a piece of balsa into a polar bear, that
it’s “definitely these foreigners, moving here from Desert Bluffs.”

The
City Council said nothing. They mostly stood around behind the press
conference podium texting and giggling. All of them had fresh
haircuts, crisp upturned polo collars, and manicures.

The
mayor said she would work closely with Sheriff Sam to find the
culprits, but in the meantime, there’s no need for alarm.

Sam
added that there was a need to remove all the foreigners.

More
on this story as it develops.

But
first, an update on the trial of Hiram McDaniels. Unable to find a
jury of peers for a literal five-headed dragon, the court agreed to
create artificial intelligence to simulate what five-headed dragon
peers would be like, and then place that A.I. on the jury. For this
project, they hired expert computer programmer Melony Pennington, who
joins us now by phone.

Welcome
to my show, Melony!


Welcome to your show! I mean hi, hello. It turns out you welcomed 

,
it doesn’t make sense to welcome you. Sorry, my mind was, you know,
the expanse. The vast. The out there. I mean my mind is elsewhere. My
mind is everywhere.


Wonderful! And how are you– 



Do you ever look at the stars? The stars. You know, the stars. Not
each star, but 

 of
the stars. I mean every single one of the stars at once. I mean the
whole night sky added up. Do you ever look at the sum of the stars?
The night sky, as an equation? Beauty as a math problem? Which it is
– everything beautiful is math. Everything beautiful is a problem.

What
was your question?


Umm, how are you doing?


Oh. I’m fine.


Melony, you sound familiar.


Do I sound familiar? You just said that, so I guess I do. You must
have met one of my programs…or not 

,
none of them are sentient. You can’t meet things that have no
sentience. Well, I guess you could be like, “Hi there, pile of
rocks, I’m Melony,” just to see what happens. I suppose there is no
set dogma for social engagement.

Oh,
I wish I had a dog.

Have you ever met a rock?

What’s
your name again?


Well, mmm…I'm– 



What I’m saying is that I probably sound familiar because all of my
programs have the same voice as me. That’s how computer programming
works.


Have you ever programmed a computer that broadcasts on a radio
station, specifically one that recites random numbers?


Oh, yes! The local numbers station, WZZZ. Yes, that was one of my
early programs. And those numbers and chimes aren’t random, they’re
encoded messages to foreign spies. Also a few pudding recipes and a
funny cryptology poem or two.


So you designed Fey, the voice of WZZZ!


Oh, the WZZZ program has no name, and absolutely no sentience. Not
every program is sentient. That WZZZ program only recites numbers and
tones. That’s all it does, and all it ever will do. It doesn’t know
it exists.


About that…see, there was 

 a couple years ago…


Ugh, listen to me babbling on. You had me on to talk about the trial.


Yes. Well, I understand there has been some controversy around the
ethics of making a jury of peers from artificial intelligence, rather
than actual five-headed dragons.


Oh, there are a lot more problems than just ethics. What 


ethics, even? How can you quantify what is right? I mean, let’s
assign a number on how ethical a computerized jury is.


I’m gonna say it’s a low number, like 1.5 or 2.


But let’s make it on a scale of 0 to 3. So that’s pretty good!
Everything’s going fine! Ethically speaking, anyway. But the
programming has been tough. Have you ever even 


to program a computer?


I barely know how to turn one on. Say, as long as I have a real
computer expert on, do you have some basic computer tips for me and
our listeners?


Oh! A public service like that would be 


ethical, like a 2.5 or even a 3 on the ethicability scale. What a
good idea! Here are some basic tips for the computer novice who’s
hoping to one day write code that advances us closer to the
singularity.

Tip
1: Computers can make you angry. Anything can make you angry.
Computers are anything.

Tip 2: Is your computer plugged in? That’s
probably illegal. You need a license to plug in a computer.

Tip 3:
Computer programs are a lot like humans. They’re full of bugs – mostly
theoretical, and invented by overly caffeinated lonely people in dark
rooms.

Tip 4: Did I say that thing about the stars already?


Yes, I…


Oh, good! 


Tip
5: Create a strong password. The most secure password possible is
(you’ll never guess this!) where the O is replaced with a zero, and
the Ls are replaced with zeros, and all of the other letters are
replaced with zeros. A string of 19 zeros is the most secure
password.


I added an exclamation point at the end of my password.


Exclamation points are impossible to hack! You are very secure.

Tip
6: There are two main types of computers. The first are PCs, or
persona computers. Personal computers know your name, and things
about your life, and are casual and friendly. Sometimes they’re
overly personal and you end up having to say, “This is all too
much. Back off, computer.” The second type of computer is the house
cat. These are ambulant robotic quadrupeds used by the Secret Police
to monitor our domestic behavior and try to understand why people
like to stroke robots and talk in high voices to them.


This has been very helpful!


Ah! Thank you for saying that! I love to be helpful! This trial has
been so challenging, and everyone is upset. These days, I don’t feel
helpful. These days I feel kind of useless and it gets me down.


Aww. I know that feeling. You know, sometimes when I’m sad, I like to
sing old hymns to myself.


Me too! Which one’s your favorite?


♫ I got the eye of the tiger, a fighter ♫


♪ Dancin’ through the fire, ‘cause I am a champion, and you’re
gonna hear me roar! ♪

 Oh!


Whoo! That’s my favorite passage from the Old Testament! 


I feel better already.


Aww, thanks, Melony.


I’m sorry, I didn’t catch your name. Goodbye!


The mayor’s office reports that perhaps their earlier call for not
being alarmed was a bit premature, and that we could all stand to be
a little more alarmed. Several dead animals have been found all over
town – on sidewalks, in trees and fields, animal corpses
everywhere.

This
has happened before, listeners. Many of you remember the glowing
cloud 

 that
passed through Night Vale years ago, dropping dead animals on all of
us. And since that first terrifying and bloody visit, the Glow Cloud



has since settled down as a citizen of this town, even joining the
school board, as the Glow Cloud’s child attends Night Vale
Elementary.

It’s
hard to believe that the Glow Cloud 

 would return to such
dreadful acts of violence against animals…and rooftops. But again,
it’s hard to know why anyone does anything.

John
Peters – you know, the farmer? – standing out in his freshly-sown
field of imaginary corn near his pastures said he saw a couple of
mangled squirrels and expired possums.

He
added, “I seen them strangers too, the ones what don’t move 'cept
for their breathin’? Just breathin’ and breathin’ and sometimes
getting a little closer than you think they were a second ago,
despite not lookin’ like they were even movin’.”

He
also said he finally received a card from his brother Jim, who left
town nearly 40 years ago to fight in the Blood Space War. The message
inside simply read, “Happy 12th birthday, little brother! Only
three months into my mission, and I am already missing you something
fierce, Johnny!”

John
covered his face and pointed to one of the strangers out on the edge
of the corn field.

“Yeah,
it’s definitely them strangers what’s killin’ these animals.”

John
then began weeping and clutching the birthday card – on it, a
farmer caricature holding balloons, and a caption reading, “I love
you, 'cows’ you’re my brother” – tightly to his heaving chest.

And
now, a word from our sponsor.

Today’s
show is brought to you by Papa John’s. At Papa John’s we make pizza
with only the freshest ingredients, using old-world recipes passed
down from our family’s many generations of pizza makers. Nearly all
of these pizza makers are still alive, making pizza and passing down
recipes. They live in the back. We’re running out of room for them.

We’ve
long given up on thinking they’d eventually die. Why don’t they die?
I mean, we love them, but there are close to 50 people in our family
dating back to at least the 1800s, their bodies aging and failing,
but never…you know…

.

Perhaps
it’s our secret recipes causing that.

You’d
think so, but it’s not. Because a few members of our family have
actually passed away…although, now that we’re thinking about it,
those were public executions for treason back during the first World
War. And another couple were car accidents.

Maybe
it 

 the sauce?

Either
way, visit your local Papa John’s. Order a delicious pizza. How
hard can it be? Immortality, we mean.

Papa
John’s. It’ll be 

.

And
now, a look at traffic.

They
met through a mutual acquaintance. They shook hands and met eyes.
Over food and drinks, and among friends, they laughed and told
stories.

Occasionally
their eyes lingered. Occasionally one looked away first. They shared
a brief but quiet and private moment on the front porch. It was
getting late. People were leaving. It was a new moon that night.
Neither would remember that part.

One
of them said goodbye as they headed to their car. The other said
goodbye back. They hugged, both thinking in that short embrace about
the other’s body against their own, about the topography of
forgiveness, and the geography of tomorrow.

“See
you again soon, I hope.”

“Yes,
you too.”

They
parted as the one drove away. Later, the other drove away. It was a
fun party with good friends, good food and drinks. They would
remember the laughing and the stories. They would not remember the
moon or the name of the other. It wouldn’t come up again.

They
later met other people, and still other people. Later, they would
drive home, and drive home. They never met again. They both lived
meaningful lives: laughing drinking, eating, and driving home.

This
has been traffic.

While
officers from the Sheriff’s Secret Police are now responding to a
series of power outages and broken water mains, witnesses have
reported a strange sight at the city’s Dog Park. Hooded figures,
which are sometimes glimpsed inside the Dog Park, were all lined up


 the Dog Park,
as if standing guard. A long row of dark cloaks and hoods, humming
and chanting.

Witnesses
kept a great distance from this scene, simply noting the hooded
figures were all of equal height and imposing stature, spaced evenly
around the forbidden municipal park.

The
sidewalks in front of them were empty, except for one young couple –
 and their dog – who walked slowly past the sentries, unperturbed
by the presence of these eldritch figures, emanating a crescendo of
white noise. Witnesses watched the couple stroll past the park, turn
a corner, and disappear from sight.

The
witnesses reported that just around that corner, where the couple had
walked, was a different person – a stranger, staring right back at
the witnesses. They did not recognize the person, for the person had
no noticeable features.

The
stranger did not appear to move, except for its steady breathing.

No
single witness saw the stranger move, but suddenly it was closer to
the crowd of onlookers, merely feet away from them.

One
of the witnesses said, “We should run away.”

Another
agreed, “Yes, let’s run away.”

They
did not go anywhere.

And
now, let’s check in on the weather.

[“

” by 

]

If
you can hear me, Night Vale, it is because you are one of those still
with electricity, or whose home is not on fire.

Oh,
breaking news, there are a bunch of fires across town. They are
spreading from home to home. Fire chief Ramona Encarnación said that
she believes the fires were started by the neglect of common but
dangerous things like kitchen ranges, candles, cigarettes, and blood
stones.

Encarnación
said these strangers are appearing at doorways, and in windows, and
inside showers, and from behind refrigerators, just staring and
breathing and otherwise not moving. Upon seeing these strangers, the
residents of those homes became frozen in fear, and thus incapable of
tending to their flammable items.

“Never
leave a blood stone unattended, Night Vale!”
Encarnación cautioned.

Mayor
Dana Cardinal finally relented to the sheriff’s request to try to
round up the strangers. Sheriff Sam responded with a jumping heel
click, and a “You won’t be sorry, mayor!” as they ran out to
start making arrests.

Sam
has long held that the strangers are just troublemakers who’ve moved
here from the collapsed town of Desert Bluffs, our former neighbors.
But upon arriving at several of the burning homes, Sam began to have
a change of mind…or belief.

These
strangers were 


from Desert Bluffs at all. These strangers, Sam now believes, are
something else.

“They
are not from here,” Sam said. “Not here
meaning Night Vale, but…

.”
Sam then indicated the broadness of the term 'here’ by swinging their
arm slowly to indicate the entirety of the tangible world we all
pretend to know and understand.

The
Secret Police, instead of arresting or detaining or…even getting
near the strangers, began to move the petrified residents of each of
these homes safely away to an undisclosed location. Which, I assume,
means the same thing as a safe location, since the Secret Police are
law enforcement professionals…?

The
strangers never moved, other than their steady breaths, even when
they sometimes appeared dramatically closer than they were before.

“The
strangers seemed to have no goal other than to threaten our
well-being, Night Vale,” Sam explained wordlessly, using only a
long ribbon and floor dance routine to express the dire situation we
are all facing. “My Secret Police and I will to serve and protect
you. Secretly, of course. This is off the record. In the meantime,
stay in your homes, and lock your doors. If you see a stranger, keep
moving, and call us. We’re an unlisted number, actually, so…maybe
email,” Sam said with a flick of their ribbon and a double
somersault.

Night
Vale, I…I think back to the words of Little League coach and ghost
Lucia Tereschenko. “They’re no longer coming. They’re 

.
And we cannot stop something that wants 

.”

And
I think of the image of that young couple and their dog, blithely
passing the row of fearful hooded figures. No doubt it was Maureen,
and that boy, and that beagle. Maureen is such a good kid! And that
beagle? So, so cute! 

Ugh.
But I fear for whatever it is she and that boy and that dog are
involved in.

Heed
our sheriff tonight, Night Vale. Stay safe in your home. Get away
fast of you see one of them.

Stay
tuned next for words, ordered intentionally and confidently, saying
something, understanding nothing.

And,
as always, goodnight, Night Vale.

Ooh!
Maybe lock those windows, too.

Goodnight.

Episode 87 - The Trial of Hiram  McDaniels


Numbers don’t lie. But humans 


numbers lie 

.

Welcome to Night Vale.

The trial of Hiram McDaniels –
five-headed dragon, former mayoral candidate, and current presumed
criminal – is coming to a close. There are only a few minor legal
technicalities to get through, such as testimony from the remaining
witnesses, arguments from the lawyers, and deliberation from the
jury. And then, we’ll have all that bureaucratic mess out of the way
and be able to get to the verdict. We’ll be covering the trial as it
continues, so stay tuned here for all your trial info.

And now for Community Classifieds.

Item: Big Rico’s Pizza is looking for
a new cashier. Must have retail experience and be good at not talking
if they know what’s good for them. No funny business! No secret wheat
speakeasies. Why would you even bring that up? Who have you been
talking to? To apply, look at yourself in the mirror for a long time,
until your face no longer seems to be your own.

Item: Have you seen a tall shadow
where no shadow should be cast? Have you seen a person exist in two
places at the same time? Have you seen a young girl with an
upside-down face? No, you haven’t. That would be ridiculous! Grow up!
Sincerely, Richard. Also, if anyone’s seen my wife, please let me
know.

Item: Lost cat. Blindingly bright,
orb-shaped, often visible in the sky during daylight hours. If found,
please worship.

And finally,

Item: I haven’t forgotten you all. I
let you live the first time. The next time you may not be so lucky.
Love, The Woman From Italy.

This has been Community Classifieds.

The Night Vale Parks Department
announced that after a multi-year, 5 million dollar repair and
renovation project, the Beatrix Lowman Memorial Meditation Zone is
once again open for public use. The Meditation Zone, a
state-of-the-art meditation facility, was destroyed by a
multidimensional sentient pyramid almost four years ago. But the
Parks Department used that crisis as an opportunity to update the
meditation mats, equipment, and machines. Now you can be hooked up
and meditating in no time! And it’s almost twice as efficient as
before, when measured in gallons per kilowatt.

The rebuilding was funded with a
simple tax levied on every school child per school day they attended,
and the construction only went three years and 4.9 million dollars
over budget. We look forward to enjoying the new Beatrix Lowman
Memorial Meditation Zone for years to come.

Today the mayor herself, my former
intern and current friend Dana Cardinal, took the witness stand in
Hiram’s trial – the final witness in the trial of the century. She
looked at the citizen who had tried to overthrow her beating heart,
to sabotage her lungs, to end the administration of life within her
body, and calmly she met his eyes. And then calmly, she met his eyes.
And then she met his eyes calmly. And then, still calm, she met his
eyes. She did not even glance at the violet head, the only head who
did not participate in the crimes against her.

Her hands were tight in front of her.
Her shoulders were back. She looked tired, and she looked determined,
and heavy with stress, and still barreling forward.

Judge Azdaq asked her to swear to
tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but.

“You want the 


truth?” Dana said.

Everyone
got very quiet. That is not a question that is asked often in a town
like ours, and it carries a dangerous weight.

“I
will give you all of it. And nothing but,” she said.

The
defense attorney and the prosecutor, two identical men both named
Troy Walsh, objected in unison. Although their objections were
unclear, and consisted of a high-pitched panicked “No, stop her!”
the judge upheld both objections.

But
Dana ignored all this.

“Being
mayor means carrying many secrets,” she said. “I am so young to
carry so much. Now, you will share in my burden.”

And
she began to tell the truth. All of it, as she knew it. Obviously we
can report nothing of what she said. Most of the crowd fled,
horrified of what would be done with them if they heard even a
fragment of the mayor’s testimony. The judge felt obligated to stay,
but put on the sound-canceling headphones they assign all judges so
none of them will hear anything that might make life too complicated.
Only Hiram, already charged, already a criminal, listened with
interest as Dana unfurled the shadows within her.

And
then, she was done. She said, “Thank you,” nodded to the judge,
nodded to Hiram, collected her belongings, and walked out of the
courtroom.

So
the trial is continuing just fine, and we should reach justice –
whatever that means – quite soon.

Obviously,
the transcript for this day of the trial will be burned, along with
the court stenographer.

And
now, the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

Up
is up, and down is down.

Left is right, and right is left.

To
the west there are the highest highs,

and to the east there are
the lows.

The up top is where the bluebirds go,

and the
witching happens down below.

If
you need to cross the street,

mind your shoes and mind your
feet.

For there are more to streets than horns that bleat,

or
cars that speed, or lights that lead.

There
is something stranger yet

that wants to take you, don’t
forget.

Yes, there is something stranger still,

and if it can,
it could and it would and it will.

Its
teeth are sharp, its eyes are sharp,

its voice a dulcet maze.

So
walk real quick and step real light,

and always look both ways.

Look
to the left to see your own death,

and look to the right to avoid
a great fright.

And
look for what hides under the cars that pass by,

under the trucks
that speed,

under the pavement weeds,

under the asphalt and
sand,

look for a quick grasping hand.

Up
is up, and down is down.

Left is right, and right is left.

To
the west there are the highest highs, and to the east there are the
lows.

The up top is where the bluebirds go, and the witching
happens down below.

This
has been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

The
Night Vale Airport announced a trial run of international flights.
Previously there were only the regular flights to LAX, JFK, 

,
Burbank, and – of course – King City. But now, airport
administration is unveiling plans to reach more than 50 international
destinations including Mexico, Double Mexico, and Svitz.

How
these plans can be achieved – in a one-terminal airport with no
customs facilities and only the capacity to handle two passenger
planes at a time – has not been answered.

Martin
McCaffrey, local representative of the TSA, waved away objections to
the changes. Standing in front of reporters and literally waving his
arms in physical dismissal of the questions being raised. He also
added an occasional “Pshhht!” and eye roll.

He
then gave a statement:

“Now
that I have provided an official response to the technical questions
on this matter, it’s time to talk about what’s important to this
town.”

He
opened a box, which contained hundreds – if not thousands – of
hand-drawn sketches depicting a strange, elongated dark figure
crawling out of a kitchen refrigerator.

Martin
said, “I find one of these on my pillow each morning when I wake
up. I don’t know who is drawing them, or why. Who is doing this to
me?”

He
collapsed to his knees, his face a perfect portrait of anguish, while
above him the bright pink banner saying, “CELEBRATING A NEW AIRPORT
FOR A NEW NIGHT VALE” flapped loudly in the rising wind, each gust
bringing a sharp bark of plastic as Martin crouched beneath,
retreated into a sad helpless silence.

You
know, I haven’t traveled out of the country in a long time. I have
half a mind to hop on one of those planes and head to Svitz
again…ooh, or even somewhere new! Maybe Carlos and I could check
out a nice resort somewhere tropical. Ahh, that’d be so fun!

Mmm…Martin
is now weeping, and crawling away from the podium, dragging his
crumpled-up sketches with him, spit and snot dripping off his face,
forming a trail in the dirt below him.

A
tropical vacation could be just what we need!

And
finally, a word from our sponsors.

Today’s
show is sponsored by Kleenex brand tissue products.

We
know that you have a lot of choices when it comes to your nose. For
instance, you could choose to simply not have one. Just pop it right
off and go on with your day unhindered. Or you could choose to have
multiple decorative noses that turn your face into a provocative
modern sculpture. But instead, you decided to have just the one
nose…that half the time doesn’t work, and is exactly between your
eyes, where it sits distractingly in your vision at all times for no
reason. Of course, your brain tunes that out…unless someone calls
attention to it, so I guess that’s not too bad.

But,
in general, you’ve chosen the barely-functioning weird nose you have.
And we’re sure glad you did!

Kleenex
brand tissue products. You have a lot of choices in life. We’re glad
you – for some reason – chose the faulty body you have.

This
has been a word from our sponsors.

Update
from the trial:

In a
last-minute surprise, there has been a complete turnover in the
makeup of the jury. Previously, the jury was made up of seven humans
and an A.I. simulating a five-headed dragon. This was all pretty
standard. But now, without warning, announcement, or any decision
from the judge, the seven humans were removed from the jury. In their
stead were seven strangers. The strangers were unmoving, unblinking.
They breathed audible, even breaths. The hiss of air through their
nostrils, eyes fixed on nothing.

Judge
Azdaq said that she does not approve of this change…but also that
she’s too scared to question it. And anyway, she would find it hard
to enforce any actions against it, since the bailiff, too, is now a
stranger, unmoving, except that every time the judge looks away and
looks back again, she swears the stranger is slightly closer than she
was before.

The
defense attorney, on behalf of the four heads he represents, offered
strong objections from behind his desk, where he was hiding from the
strangers. The prosecuting attorney joined his objections, and also
joined him behind the desk.

There
was very little comment from the observers in the gallery – as most
of them, too, had been replaced by unmoving breathing strangers.

“Well,
I guess we should get right to deliberations, then,” shouted the
judge through the closed and locked door of her chambers.

“But
we haven’t even given our closing arguments!” said both attorneys
simultaneously, sitting back-to-back so that they could keep their
eyes on as many of the strangers as possible.

The
judge considered this argument, and responded by screaming that one
of the strangers was in her chamber, and how did he get in there? The
Troys did not have an answer for that, and so the deliberations
begin.

Listeners,
while we wait to hear the verdict to this eventful and historic
trial, let us take a quick peak at the weather.

[“

”
by 

]

The
trial of Hiram McDaniels is over. A verdict has been reached.

The
jury that consisted of an A.I. simulation of a five-headed dragon and
seven silent unmoving strangers only deliberated for a few minutes
before returning with a verdict of guilty on all charges.

The
strangers breathed heavy, visible breaths. The A.I. booped and
whistled. It was all very quiet, and polite, and quick.

Hiram’s
heads responded in ways as different as their personalities.

Green,
of course, roared and spat out a stream of fire unlike any ever seen
from him before – white in its pure heat.

Gold
nodded gravely, a politician politically accepting bad news.

Blue
didn’t react visibly at all.

Gray
slumped and curled into his own long neck, a look of supreme
dejection on his reptilian features.

And
Purple sat tall – in satisfaction, rather than celebration.

Judge
Azdaq said, “Well, let’s get to sentencing then.” And Troy Walsh,
lawyer for the defendants, prepared to speak, but the judge went on
to say, “There are no arguments to be made. If Hiram is guilty of
attacking the mayor, of attacking the very civic structure of our
town, then Hiram must be put to death. We have no choice,” she
concluded.

Even
Troy Walsh, the prosecuting attorney, was taken aback by this sudden
and severe sentence. He met eyes with his identical legal opposition,
and made a small shrug. “What am I supposed to do here?” he
signaled through the expressive language of the body. “This isn’t
my problem, I guess. It’s 


problem, but not 


problem.”

The
judge continued. “Sentence will be carried out once all appeals
have been received and disposed of. The guilty four heads will be
killed with a single bullet each, so as not to harm the lungs, heart,
or any other part of the body shared with the violet head, who is not
charged by this court.”

“But,”
Violet shouted. “But I am connected to them 

!
If my other heads die, then I will die, too!”

Green
continued to roar, and for the first time, there was a hard spine of
anguish within the pulse of his anger.

Gray
sobbed loudly and unashamed.

Gold,
still nodding at the court with a politician’s poker face, surprised
himself by throwing up – and, in doing so, gave up the pretense of
geniality. He, too, began to sob.

“I’m
afraid,” said Judge Azdaq, removing her glasses and cleaning them
distractedly with a bit of her robe, “that justice is more
important than the life of every innocent who comes through this
court. If there is damage to more than the perpetrators, then that is
unfortunate, but unavoidable. Take him away.”

Since
the bailiff was an unmoving stranger, the helpful (but doomed) court
stenographer led Hiram away.

Violet
howled that she couldn’t do this, that he was not charged with any
crime, but no one intervened.

A
janitor trundled her cart forward to mop up the vomit left by Gold.

The
few humans left observing the court seemed at a loss for what to do,
and started to disperse in uncertain, uneven groups.

The
A.I. did not move, because it was a computer.

The
strangers in the courtroom did not move, either – although they
seemed just a little closer to the onlookers than they were before.

And
so…that’s it. That was the trial of Hiram McDaniels. He will be
killed. His violet head, innocent, will also die.

So
that’s justice…I guess. I guess we’ve done it. Good work, us…I
guess.

Stay
tuned next for the awful void of your own doubts and feelings.

Goodnight…I
guess.

Episode 88 - Things Fall Apart


 Citywide
utility failures continue to haunt us, but not as much as the
strangers who do not appear to move.

Welcome to the Night Vale Public
Utilities Phone Line.

If you’re calling with a water,
power, gas, phone, or surveillance camera malfunction, please press
1.

If you just called to chat…

Night Vale is currently experiencing
citywide power outages, as well as polluted water supplies, and
several gas leaks. It’s not our fault, but H.R. says we should
apologize for the inconvenience. Sorry, I guess.

It’s not like we’re not experiencing
the same thing, though, so maybe you could reciprocate the
sympathies?


I’m sorry?


Thank you.

To
pay your bill, press 1.

To
compliment the fine work of the Utilities Department, press 2.

To
whine about your personal problems…


I’m not complimenting the fine work of the Utilities Department.


I can repeat that last option, if you need.

To
compliment the fine work of the Utilities Department, press 2.

Okay,
fine.

To
whine about your personal problems, press 3.

To
schedule a service technician, press

You
pressed 4. I didn’t give you an option 4, you just assumed the next
number and then cut me off mid-sentence.


Oh, good God!


I’m sorry, is this hard for you? Do you need a hug? Do you need me to
sing you a lullaby and feed you? Here comes the airplane spoon to
feed the hungry hungry boy! 


Mmm, tasty carrots! Feel better now?


Wow, the phone tree is getting snippy!


Don’t be rude. I am a person, not a phone tree. This is my job, to
record every possible phrase for every possible person’s possible
need. I recorded all of it. I’m a real human, with a body, and needs,
and a family. And I have a name. I am Maggie Pennebaker. I’m not a
“disembodied lady voice” who will passively ignore your whiny
entitlement.


I – I’m sorry, Maggie. Are…are we speaking live?

 You selected
“schedule a service technician.” Please hold.

Our
next available service date is between the hours of:


one


and


five p.m.


on


September 4th, 2005


in the


common era.


That was 11 years ago!


To have time explained to you like you were a five year-old, please
hang up now and give up on ever having realistic expectations.

To
confirm this appointment, press 1.

To
speak to a customer service representative, press 2.

All
operators are currently


shouldering the immense burden


of


societal displeasure.


Please continue to hold. Current wait time is


super long.


Aaaagh!


Hey, Pooh!


Hey, Bunny. Listen, Carlos? The power is out here at the station. I
can’t even do my show! I’ve been trying to get through to the
Utilities, but they’re slammed with calls.


Oh, I talked to my friend Maggie, who works there. She said her
cousin has an extra generator we can borrow.


You know Maggie?


Yeah! She used to work with me part-time as a lab assistant. Also,
Josie came by with her friends and dropped off some bottled water.
Even John Peter has stopped by. You know John Peter, he’s the– 



Yes, John Peters, the farmer. I know.


No. John 

,
remember? The pharmacist. Anyway, he dropped off your prescription
this morning.


Oh, well that was nice of him!


Listen, since you don’t have to work today, you should come back
home! It’s bad out there, and if you’re going to get killed or
possessed by one of the strangers…I’d rather you do it here with
me! I’ll make us some lunch, and we can play Cards In Favor Of
Humanity.


Aw, that sounds great, but I still need to get to the bottom of what
is going on in this city. Intern Kareem pulled some documents for me
that he says I need to read through, and I have some calls to make.
The invasion by these strangers is a big story, and even if I can’t
broadcast it, I still need to find some way to report it. I’ll call
you later.


You’re so good at your job.


You are too, Carlos. Oh, how’s your research going?


Well, I’ve been examining some of the places where the strangers have
been spotted. I have a meter that makes squawking sounds sometimes,
you know? And I’m uncertain if those last two sentences are related.
Cecil, Be careful. And…if you see one of the strangers, just get
out of there quickly, and call me, okay?


We’ve survived one at the station before. I think I’ll be fine.


Well, past performance is not an indicator of future results, but…I
love you.


Okay. Bye.

 Howdy!
Sheriff Sam.


Sheriff? Hi, this is Cecil Palmer, over at Night Vale Community
Radio?


What I just said was off the record. Don’t play it on air.


You only said “howdy.”


No, I didn’t.


Okay. Sheriff, I’m not even on the air right now. No one is listening
to this call, except the Secret Police, the City Council, the mayor,
and…well, some neighborhood espionage clubs, but they have our
community’s best interests at heart.

Look,
I’m calling because I wanted to find out what the Secret Police know
about the strangers who are showing up all over town. Are the
structural failures related to their presence here?


Now, by “strangers,” do you mean the foreigners from Desert
Bluffs, who are taking over our beautiful city after they managed to
run their own city into the dirt? Or are you referring to the people
who don’t seem to move, except for their breathing, who stand and
stare at seemingly nothing, and who – without any noticeable motion
– suddenly appear much closer, and who cause our citizens to stand
trance-like until they’re taken or killed or subsumed or converted
into non-moving strangers themselves?


The latter.


Cecil 

. There are two
sinkholes opened up on Route 800. The dam along Night Vale Lake
broke. Fortunately our lake is just an empty dust hole, but it still
broke wide open. Also, I have a caffeine headache, even though 


That just sounds like a headache, then.


Look, I don’t want the media dictating to me what is or is not a



headache! The point is, things are falling apart, but not in the fun
way – in the 


way!


There’s a 


way?


Well yes, like…during a scheduled earthquake, or ho-ho! Or when the
lizard people dig new tunnels below old buildings.


Oh, oh, of course! Of course. Oh! What about the former Desert Bluffs
residents who moved to Night Vale? Are…are the strangers doing the
same to them?


Who cares?


Well, 


care! The people who know them care! They’re 

,
Sheriff! And as a reporter, I 


report that you said that.


Well, I’m the sheriff of a secret police force, so, no you won’t. You
won’t do that at all.

Ha-ha!
I’m just playing with you! I have a dry sense of humor, you might
have missed that. I 


delivering a real threat to your life, but in a teasing way. Ha-ha.
You definitely 


report anything I tell you.

Some
of those Desert Bluffs people we can’t even track. Not all of them
stayed here, some of them moved away. In our regular interrogations
and detentions of these non-citizens, we’ve learned that a lot of
them moved to some other place, which they say feels a bit more like
home. I don’t know anything about that, except that I’m happy to get
them out of here. They can set up all the Joyous Congregations of the
Smiling God that they want some other place!

Just
tell your listeners that everything is fixed, and everyone is safe.
The Sheriff saved the day.


But you didn’t do 

!


Got to go, Cecil! Just got some new calligraphy pens I need to break
in before the press conference to announce that all is lost.


Uh, it’s Cecil 

,
thanks.


Dark Owl Records, please shut up about music before you embarrass
yourself.


Michelle? Hey, it’s Cecil. I hate to bother you but I’m trying to
track down Maureen. I heard that you two are friends.


I only talked about Maureen privately into my audio journal. Did you
listen to the monologue I recorded?


Yes, I played it on the air six weeks ago.


I didn’t want anyone to hear that! That was personal!


Michelle, you mailed me a cassette with a note that said “Here’s my
monologue to play on your show, Cecil!”


But that was me from more than a month ago. I 


that me. Haven’t you ever made mistakes in your youth?


Yes. Many. Michelle, you’ve talked to Maureen recently, how is she?

She’s
fine. I mean, she’s not that into leading an army, or whatever, but
it’s just a thing she does for a living. I sell records, you talk on
the radio, Maureen leads the army of unmoving strangers.


She’s the 


of the strangers?


Or whatever. Maureen was sweet, and let me see one of the strangers
up close. They smell like compost, and are all gray, and they make
you feel cold. They’re really beautiful, but they’ll devour your soul
and turn you into one of them. Maureen says it’s super painful when
they do that, and the transformation is for forever. That’s why they
can only stand and breathe, and not really move, because they’re in
so much pain for so long, trapped in immortal bodies.

It
was cool. 


cool. I mean, I don’t know. Will you hate me if I like something?


Michelle, how did you get up close to one without being devoured?


Maureen said she’d keep me safe from them, because we’re each others’
only friends. Maureen’s a…kind person. She does like country music,
but I think friendship is sometimes about compromise. If it means
getting to be around her, I’m perfectly happy covering my ears and
humming the Bob’s Burgers theme.


What about the boy in the hoodie, who hangs out with Maureen?


Chad? Chad’s okay, I guess. He’s just Maureen’s boss, though. She 


to hang around him a bunch and watch his evil dog. It’s just work,
you know?


Michelle, I…


Cecil? Music sometimes calms me. You want to hear a song I really
like?


Sure.


Okay, here you go.

[“

”
by 

,
featuring Carrie Elkin]


That was a wonderful song, Michelle!


Are you still talking about that song I started playing 


ago? I’ve moved on from that. Glad you like oldies so much.

Anyway,
Maureen’s new phone number is Old Town-57614.


Thanks, Michelle.


Hi, this is Maureen. I am probably at work, or asleep, or somewhere
else. Somewhere listening to the sound of the moon slowly trying to
peel off our oceans with its gravity, pulling its weak little chalky
speck of a body, grabbing this blue giant and tearing away at its
watery skin. A futile fight. A spinning battle of large and small.
And in the sky you can hear the whirling of the battling siblings.

Or
maybe I just don’t want to take your call. Or maybe I’m dead. Or
maybe 


dead, and this is the voicemail you get when you die.

“Hi,
Maureen here, sorry you’re dead! For some reason, I’m the one person
you wanted to call the moment you left behind your short life, and
I’m not even here to take it. So sorry, newly-dead person! Make sure
you leave a phone number where I can reach you, because I certainly
don’t know how to call dead people on the phone.”

Or
maybe I lost my phone, and it’s in my car, or under a pillow, or I
left it in a movie theater, or a raccoon ate it.

Maybe
there’s a raccoon somewhere in the brush, or in a trash can behind a
house, walking with a limp because it just ate a phone. A rectangle
of glass, and metal, and electronics, that’s a quarter of the length
of the raccoon’s body, and now that phone is inside the raccoon’s
guts, stretching its tiny tummy impossibly long, pressing against the
masked Procyon’s little heart and lungs as it walks tenderly to one
side to alleviate the discomfort of such an intrusive foreign object.

The
raccoon – and…this is kind of cute, kind of sad to think about –
walks diagonally, all the while emitting a little “♫
doo-de-lee-doo-ooo, doo-de-lee-dooooo, doo-de-lee-doo ♫”
ringtone, all muffled from within its quivering torso, and
questioning its “eat everything it can find” dogma, and thinking
perhaps to just limit that life philosophy to trash cans.

Of
course, I bet people throw away phones all the time, so that’s
probably not a big help…although in my case, I’m positive I didn’t
do that because my job is too important to just throw my phone away.
Too, too important. Too many evil beings to manage. Too fragile a
portal into another dimension, a dimension which is probably Hell?
IDK. I…I’m not a religious studies major, although if I were, I bet
I would have graduated by now.

I
mean, so much can go wrong if I lost my phone. Like, no one could get
a hold of me to help me fix it. Which is not to say I know how to fix
an inter-dimensional portal between Hell and this world, but just
that I could be a person to be like “Oh no! I’m sorry to hear the
portal is malfunctioning! Let me panic a little bit and make some
phone calls to feel like we’re all doing something about it!”

And
that would be helpful, because sympathy is critical to good teamwork,
and if you don’t care about your job, you’re not gonna make anything
of yourself.

I
am! I am making something of myself! Just sculpting away! Here’s a
clump of Maureen, let’s work it with it with these hands. Yeah, this
is looking great! This is a really nice Maureen here, all ready to be
put in a fire, cooled, painted, and set upon an alabaster pedestal in
the foyer.

So
leave me a message and I’ll get back to you.


Maureen! I finally figured it out. Chad Bowinger! That boy I’ve seen
you with! He used to intern here, just like you! He went to report a
story on that used sporting goods store that we thought was a front
for the World Government, and never came back out. I guess it was
something much worse he found in that shady old building.

Now
the two of you have a really successful startup. I’m proud of our
internship program here at the station. I – I’m also proud of you
for becoming a professional. You’re leading an 

,
Maureen, that’s very impressive! Much more so than filing papers,
fetching me lunch, and updating my erotic fan fiction blog. It sounds
like a great job with good benefits. It’s, uh, it’s a tough job
market for you young people these days. Lots of changing technologies
making old jobs like print journalism, cardiology, and computer
programming obsolete. Plus, all these new people moving here from
Desert Bluffs? Kudos to you, Maureen!

Here’s
my question, though, and it’s an important one. So, Carlos, my
boyfriend. Earlier, when I talked to him, I forgot to say “I love
you” at the end of the call. I was…I was preoccupied. No – no
big deal. My love was implicit in the way was talked to each other.
Love needn’t be verbalized when it exists in intuition and physical
contact. He knows I love him.

But
part of me wonders…what if one of those rare times I forgot to hug
him goodbye, or failed to say “I love you,” turns out to be the
last time I have that chance? Lots can go wrong in an indifferent
universe.

I’ll
see him in a couple of hours, right? I’ll see Carlos later. Right,
Maureen?

Please
call me back. I want to talk more about what you and Chad are doing
to my town. I…oh. I’m getting another call from an unknown number.
I’m hoping this is the Sheriff. Call me back.

Hello?

Hello?

Who
is this?

Episode 89




Episode 9 - “PYRAMID”


Weird at last, weird at last! God almighty, weird at last!

Welcome to Night Vale. 

The Sheriff’s Secret Police are asking the public’s help in catching a dangerous fugitive on the loose in the greater Night Vale area. They say he is armed, and should be approached with extreme caution.

For everyone’s protection, they are keeping the name and description of the fugitive secret, but indicate that all strangers should be mistrusted and avoided…as well as friends and loved ones, because how well do you know those people, anyway? Are you aware of their location every second of every day? Who among us does not have secrets?

The fugitive is wanted dead or alive and vigilante justice is, as always, highly encouraged.

Our top story today:

A large Pyramid has appeared in the center of the Beatrix Lohman Memorial Meditation Zone, destroying over half of the Zone’s state-of-the-art meditation equipment and paraphernalia. Experts have been contacted as to what could cause sudden Pyramid existence.

However, as it turns out, there are no experts in Pyramid materialization. And the town’s other experts offered up merely shrugs, followed by panicked conjectures, and finally, screams and moans, all of which fell uselessly upon the City Council’s merciless ears.

The Pyramid has been described as “a kind of triangle shape, only three-dimensional.” It has made no movement, despite repeated taserings by the Sheriff’s Secret Police.

Many suspect that this may be a publicity stunt pulled by our own local cereal company, Flakey O’s, who are launching their new line of nighttime-only cereals next month.

An angry mob has formed outside of the cereal factory, just in case.

You remember, the deceitful barber with a shriveled soul who. just a few weeks ago. cut perfect scientist Carlos’ perfect, beautiful hair very short – so very, 

 – thus depriving our community of our only remaining pleasure.

Well, Telly was seen recently, wandering the Sand Wastes, howling at the sky, and holding up Carlos’ shorn locks as though begging God to reverse the crime he has done. Reports indicate that his skin was blistering, that his eyes were bleary, and that he was recently seen trying to give a 

 a haircut, whispering and cooing into what he seemed to think was its ear. 

Listeners, I am not one to stand aside harshly and say that a man deserves the punishment that comes to him, but I also am not sorry to see Telly in this state, given his crime.

In any case, if your cactus is in need of a haircut, try Telly, out wandering the Sand Wastes.

Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am not a cat person. But I have really grown to love Khoshekh, the stray cat that has made his home here at the radio station. I discovered Khoshekh several weeks ago, hovering in a fixed location in the men’s bathroom – and he’s remained there ever since.

The men at the station, of course, have taken to keeping the sink at a light trickle, so he can get water, and we even take turns buying Science Diet Low-Calorie Cat Food. It turns out little Khoshekh is getting a bit chubby, since he can’t actually exercise in his unmovable, levitating state.

Oh, and thanks to our new intern, Brad, we’ve finally solved the litter problem. Brad is very excellent at both carpentry 

 dark magic, so he rigged us up a fine-looking litter box that our floating feline friend can reach. He’s just adorable, that cat! As a life-long dog lover, I’ve really turned the corner. Khoshekh is 

I know several others here at the station who feel the same way. After meeting Khoshekh, McKayla, who works in sales, put her three-year-old Weimaraner to sleep and then adopted six tabby kittens. She’s that much of a convert! Make sure to take some cute videos, McKayla!

And for others of you interested in getting a new cat, the Night Vale SPCA strongly recommends that you have your cat spayed or neutered, bring them in for their shots and, once the cat reaches 18 months, begin using the little beast to harvest human organs for those “just in case” moments.

The SPCA has several one-sheets on preventing heart worms and using pets to grow small replacement organs. To get your copy, go online or simply make up your own informative facts. 

An update on the Pyramid reported on earlier:

Word is in that the Pyramid has 

. It is broadcasting, on low-wave frequencies, a repeated message. The message is the following: 

The Flakey O’s marketing department must be 

 for the best use of viral marketing in Night Vale since Stan’s Pawn Shop released a virulent strain of Ebola back in ‘98. And, as a communicator by trade, I applaud their ingenuity.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police has responded with surface-to-surface missiles which, they say, will “silence the dark heart of the beast.” So far, they have not so much as created a smudge on the Pyramid’s broad, shiny surface. 

Home handymen, fix-it vixens, ladies and gentlemen who love to get their hands dirty, let’s talk about home repair.

Certain jobs are fine for the amateur, and certain others should be left to the professionals.

Leaky sinks, sticky windows, minor exorcisms, and bleeding doors – all these are the kind of 'quick fixes’ that a toolbox and a quick search on the internet should allow you to take care of.

On the other hand, structural damage, major remodeling, seeping darkness, 

 exorcisms, roof boils, and lawn care – these are all the kind of work that should not be attempted by anyone without years of expertise and a valid Hammer License from the City Council.

Finding the right professional for the job is easy. Just look at the Yellow Pages. Or head down to the squatter shacks by the edge of the Sand Wastes and ask around among the homeless.

And now, a public service announcement from the Night Vale medical community.

Being in the desert, we get a lot of sun, and doctors are encouraging Night Vale citizens to do regular skin checks. You may think that freckle or mole is harmless, but you never know when it will grow into something much worse.

Surgeons at Night Vale General Hospital are noting an uptick in dermatological growths related to sun exposure. Doctors describe these growths as “15-inch spiraled horns.”

The horns mostly protrude from the lower back or knees. Unchecked, these horns can develop a glistening shine, small leather saddles, and bright red lips on the very tip.

So check your skin at least once a week in the mirror. Dermatologists recommend a three-step process.

If you are not one of the 53% of our community that was born without pain-sensing nerves, you should first consult your primary care electrolysist for tips on how to numb yourself to the nigh-unbearable pain of existence.

The Department of Public Safety announced that all street signs in Night Vale will be replaced with Traffic Cops wielding semaphore flags. Drivers will be required to learn this physically expressive maritime alphabet.

This decision is not without its controversy, as the existing street signs are entirely in braille. One critic, Paul Birmingham, says removing these signs will 

.

As a member of the Air-Filled Earth Society, Paul believes that Earth is a precariously-inflated orb that could pop or sag at any moment.

“We’ve gotta stop teaching all this religious propaganda in our schools and start teaching real science,” Paul shouted from his lean-to behind the library.

I have to admit, listeners, he makes a valid point. 

And now, a word from our sponsor.

Today’s program is brought to you by Audible.com, your online source for recorded books.

There are thousands of great titles at Audible.com that you can download to your computer, or portable device, and listen to on the go.

I use Audible to catch up on best-selling titles like “The Help” and “Vango-Notes for Technical Communication 11\e.” I’m on their website right now, and I’m typing in a search for “Dog Park,” because I was thinking about this town’s beautiful new fixture, and how I will never, 

 take my dog there.

Let’s see what Audible comes up with. 

Huh. It’s a flashing black-and-red screen that says “

” in all-caps.

And below that, a little animation of two digging workers: “Under Construction.”

That’s adorable!

So check out Audible.com. New Audible members can get one free audio book just by smudging their computer monitors with baby’s blood and humming the Spanish translation of “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”

Audible.com: “You can’t burn what you can’t even touch.”

Update on the Pyramid situation. Flakey O’s Board of Directors are vehemently denying – some of them at gunpoint – that they have any part in the Pyramid that is stubbornly continuing to exist in our town.

They are sneaky ones! I hope the new line of cereal turns out to be worth the hype. Meanwhile, the Pyramid itself has 

 its broadcast, sending out a second message, which is as follows:

Now, I’m not too good at this ’

 thing, so I can’t see all the codes and hidden web addresses that I’m sure are all through that message. I’ll leave that to all the dedicated amateurs out there in the listening world.

Sheriff’s Secret Police are now attempting to charge the Pyramid with resisting arrest, on the grounds that they couldn’t figure out how to arrest it. More as the story develops. 

In the meantime, let’s go to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Well, listeners, it seems the Pyramid has disappeared – as mysteriously and suddenly as it arrived. Too late, I’m afraid, for the Flakey O’s Board of Directors, who have all been taken to the Abandoned Mine Shaft outside of town for processing by the City Council. 

The Sheriff’s Secret Police are declaring victory in their standoff against the Pyramid…because, they say, it’s about time they won 

.

Meanwhile, the Pyramid has left behind a much 

 Pyramid, a mere 

 of its looming, inscrutable mass. This tiny Pyramid is broadcasting one final message – a farewell from the geometric shape that stole our hearts.

So let us wrap up our show today with its words:

You heard it here, folks. Tell people. Tell people about Flakey O’s new line of cereals for nighttime only. Do it in memory of its Board of Directors.

Stay tuned now for an hour of dead air with the occasional hiss and crackle.

Speaking of the nighttime, I truly hope you have a good one, Night Vale. 

Goodnight.

Episode 91 - The 12




Episode 92 - If He Had Lived


Which came first – the chicken, the
egg, or airplanes?

Welcome to Night Vale.

Hello, listeners. This week is
National Alternate History Week, in which we celebrate our rich
history that 


happened, if what 


happened 


happen. The Night Vale Historical Society sorts through the local
submissions, and the best story gets placed into the elementary
school curriculum. It’s a fun activity that helps boost creativity
and obfuscate the past.

Today,
for my version of history, I will be looking at the Kennedy
assassination and trying to answer the question, “What If He Had
Lived?”

Well,
here’s a start.

He
would have eaten lunch. Did you know he was on his way to a lunch
when he was killed? He was! He was probably hungry. If he had lived,
he would have eaten – big bites full of gusto.

Later
that day he would have gone to Austin. He would have breathed deep,
healthy breaths.

He
probably would have been reelected if he lived. Sure! Handsome
charismatic guy like that? Four more years! No Lyndon Johnson (or
Lyndon Johnson would, as far as I know, continue to exist – but no


 Johnson).
Without the pressure of having to win another term, perhaps he would
have pulled us out of Vietnam in ‘66 or '67, saving countless lives
and forever altering the cultural and artistic landscapes of the late
'60s and early '70s. Our art would be different, there would be more
of us, and he would go on living.

Jackie
Kennedy would feel no grief. She would never have to feel grief
again. She would stand, ageless and smiling, on bandstands, on
stages, waving, her smile distant (not even a smile, but a


 of a
smile), waving, on bandstands, on stages, griefless, waving, ageless,
smiling.

More
on our story of “If He Had Lived” soon. But first, the news.

I
know that some of our listeners were worried about the Beatrix Lowman
Memorial Meditation zone, that state-of-the-art (and enormously
expensive) institution that reopened this Spring. There was concern
that the Meditation Zone may have been damaged or even destroyed at
the attack by the evil beagle and his army of unmoving strangers that
nearly erased our town from the map just a couple months ago. But the
good news is that the Meditation Zone is entirely undamaged, and it
is ready for you to meditate in.

What
a tragedy it would have been to lose such an important aspect of our
community! And also, how frustrating it would have been, given that
large parts of our city government were facing huge budget shortfalls
while more and more city money was heaped on the rebuilding of the
Zone. All of that money for nothing!

But
no, the Zone still stands! Celebrate by coming on down to the Beatrix
Lowman Memorial Meditation Zone, and hooking yourself up into one of
the state-of-the-art meditation machines that will have you calm and
harvested in no time at all. What a stress reliever!

The
National Weather Service has released a statement saying that the
thunderstorms that have been going continuously for the last several
months to the west of Night Vale might not be thunderstorms, but
instead the movements of the terrible court of the Distant Prince.
They explained that when warm, moist air enters a low pressure
system, sometimes it does so around the barely-understood (and
all-powerful) Distant Prince, flanked by his harbingers and served by
the court shriekers, the mangled servants, and the hollow-eyed
weepers – all of which would result in some lightning, thunder, and
of course, localized atrocities.

It’s
also possible that they’re just some particularly persistent
thunderstorms. Either way, the Weather Service said, “Best to just
avoid the area entirely. Because being struck by lightning, or being
skinned alive by the mangled servants, are both real and deadly
threats that should be avoided.”

The
year is 1973. Kennedy had not died, and is finishing his third term.
An embargo in somewhere called the “Middle East” results in
soaring gas prices. But the confidence America has for their
president is high. He saw us through many other crises – including
the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962, the Svitz-Franchia Standoff of
1967, and the rise of the Blood Space War in 1971. We wait in long
lines at gas stations, but he comes by to 


gas station – 


of gas stations at once, multiplying himself as he has learned to do,
and smiling at us, and we feel at ease. Broke, but at ease.

He
continues as president through the turbulence of the '70s and into
the '80s. A biopic is made of his life, starring the mid-level movie
star Ronald Reagan (who will soon be washed up and entering his
late-life career of narrating commercials for frozen food and
insurance). The movie doesn’t even mention Dallas. Nothing happened
in Dallas, except a short drive to lunch. This is mostly what happens
in Dallas.

Paul
Simon releases his classic album 

.
It is about the time that President Kennedy visited Graceland in
1982. The album is a huge flop due to its limited subject matter and
aural motif of pained moans and lawnmower engines.

Jackie
Kennedy has not aged. In fact, she appears 


than before. At night, she walks among the monuments in D.C., serene
and alone, not even a Secret Service escort with her. Anyone who
tries to approach finds themselves pushed back by a faint mist that
smells of apple and spice, and feels like thousands of needles.
Witnesses claim her feet are not even touching the ground. Her arms
seem longer than they used to, as though they were the only part of
her body continuing to change.

If
JFK had lived, listeners, “If He Had Lived.” More soon. First,
this.

Remember
the phases of the moon: new, crescent, quarter, gibbous, gelatinous,
full, very full, swirling, angry, unsure of itself, mad with power,
disappointed in the newest Marvel movie, very 


full, feeling like an impostor, jealous toward the sun, being extra
nice to the sun to make up for the jealousy the sun is unaware of,
trying to sabotage the sun’s happiness but only succeeding in
sabotaging its own happiness, and finally new again.

This
has been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

And
now, a word from our sponsors.

Sometimes
you are on the precipice, the moment where everything could topple.
Maybe it is danger, or a hard choice, or just change (which is, in
our perception, the biggest danger of all). And sometimes we are on
the smooth flats, where everything is stable, and the precipice is
just a tickle in the back of the back of our minds.

But
deep down, we know the truth. We see it sometimes, driving at night
through a rainstorm, or when the phone rings at the wrong hour, or
when the plane starts to shake, there are no smooth flats. It’s all
precipice. Always.

And
sometimes we are facing the precipice, and sometimes we are turned
away. But it is always there, and we are always teetering.

And
maybe the fall isn’t even the worst part. Maybe, when we fall, there
is at least the relief that we know we’re falling. No more
uncertainty. Maybe the worst part is the teetering, the teetering for
years and years.

Delta
Airlines: 

.

This
has been a word from our sponsors.

The
year is this year. The day is today. The time is now. President
Kennedy calls a press conference. His salt-and-pepper hair is neatly
combed, his hands are steady. He has been president for decades. He
opens the conference by issuing a warm birthday message to cinematic
treasure Lee Marvin. Mr. Marvin turns 30 today, and is perhaps the
nation’s most beloved performer.

This
pleasantry aside, the president announced that we have a grave
national problem that must be addressed. He then said 


name several times, and shuddered for five silent minutes. An aide
showed some pictures of you, while the president pointed at them
saying, “Here we see the problem.”

Finally
he said your name again, visibly blanched, and said, “Right?
Right?”

Congress
widely agreed with the president’s message, and several bills were
introduced with the goal of solving the problem that is 

.

Jackie
Kennedy had no comment. Not only had she never felt grief, it seemed
to her that she had not felt anything at all since that day she had
lunch in Dallas. It was as though some real human part of herself had
experienced something so intense, and sincere, that all feelings had
diverged from this false version of herself, leaving her hollow.

It
had been an okay lunch.

The
president complained of headaches. He was experiencing more and more
as the years went on.

A
continuation on our story soon.

If,
hypothetically, angels existed – which, 

,
of course, I cannot say that they do – but it they did, then the
angels would have let me know that Old Woman Josie fell in her garden
and broke her hip this week. The hypothetical angels (who are all
named…oh, let’s say Erika) said that she is fine and in good
spirits, but will have to spend a few days in the hospital. They are
a little worried about that, since the hospital is a
barely-understood and terrible place, where doctors lurk and nurses
flit from patient to patient.

Rumor
has it that on the darkest night of the darkest month, if you stand
in 

 the right
place, you can see ghost ambulances carrying ghost patients into the
ghost E.R. – which is the best and most up-to-date ghost E.R. in
the region, much better even than the ghost E.R. available over in
Pine Cliff (the town nearby that is entirely populated by ghosts).

Pine
Cliff residents often come to our hospital for treatment, rather than
going to their understaffed and underfunded ghost hospital.
It’s…it’s just not right, them straining our resources and taking
away medical attention from our own 


ghosts instead of fixing the ghost problems in their own ghost city.

Anyway,
here’s wishing a quick recovery to my good friend Old Woman Josie. It
sounds like a painful slip, but hopefully the sheer desire to escape
a place as baffling and terrifying as a hospital will help her push
through her recovery as soon as possible.

Back
to “If He Had Lived.”

The
year is 2080. Coastal cities all over the world are succumbing to the
water that had long sustained them – the basic elements of each
city, like streets and burger shacks, slowly disappearing below the
sea foam.

The
Eighth Siege of the Great Night Vale Temple rages on. The scion of
the Dark Order makes his prophesied appearance at the exact correct
prophesied time (after several false starts where he had arrived too
early and had to leave again).

President
Kennedy offers a steady hand to the nation, even as his beloved
Massachusetts is swallowed by the rising seas. He brokers a deal with
the Sino-Soviet superstate that provides safe passage for the masses
of climate refugees, and also those fleeing the shrouded armies of
the Dark Order. He addresses the country with inspiring words that
people will remember for decades afterwards.

“The
sea levels will not rise another inch. Instead, the American people
will rise to meet the sea levels.”

Everyone
applauds The sea levels continue to rise. Millions are displaced.

Jackie
Kennedy lies in the White House Rose Garden. She lies there for
years. Moss grows on her face. She is trying to remember what 

happened. She is trying to
understand what the even means.

“Isn’t
this all really happening now? But it doesn’t 


like it!” It feels like what was real was left behind long ago, and
now even the raindrops on her upturned face are a series of tiny
lies.

Speaking
of rain, the finale of our alternate history in a moment.

But
first, the weather.

[“

” by 

]

We
bring you now to the final installment of our “If He Had Lived”
alternate history story.

It
is the heat death of the universe. Everything that ever was has
broken down to the most basic particles, and those particles have
reached a perfect stasis of temperature. There will never again be
change. Without change, there will never again be anything at all.
The universe has ended – not by ceasing to exist, but just by
finding perfect balance. An Armageddon of Zen, not fire.

President
Kennedy, never assassinated, floats in the nothing. His hair is
neatly combed, and he projects an optimistic but vague expression
that gives nothing away.

Jackie
Kennedy floats near him. She has never felt grief. Her smile is a
forged copy of a painting of a smile, many layers removed from the
emotion it is meant to convey.

“What
shall we do today?” he asks her.

“Oh,
whatever you want to. I have nothing particular in mind,” she says.

Everything
around them is beige. This is the average color of the universe, and
the universe has been reduced to its average.

He
winces.

She
smiles, feeling concerned but not knowing at all how to show it with
her face.

“The
headaches again?”

“Yes,”
he says. “Just here.”

“I’m
sure they will pass.”

“Yes,”
he says. “Yes.”

He
has a vision that feels like a memory, of a moment that never
happened on a sunny afternoon in Dallas, billions of years ago. A
flash of red, and then a nothing, deeper even than the 


they float in now.

“I
don’t know if this is right,” he says. “I don’t know if this is
what was supposed to happen.”

“Everything
happens as it was meant to,” she says, even though she is unsure of
that. She is, in fact, sure of the opposite.

They
float silently.

Later,
nothing happens.

If
he hadn’t died, if he had lived, lived on and led on, if he had
continued and continued and continued and nothing changed, if no one
else ever got a chance, if the country never moved on, if he had
lived, 

, this is
what would have happened.

Or,
that’s how 

 imagine
it, anyway.

Thank
you for joining us on this celebration of Alternate History Week.
We’ve heard some exciting ones, like “What if Germany had Won World
War II,” “What if the South Had Won the Civil War,” “What if
Bath Mats Were Never Invented,” and “What if (Somehow) Germany
had Won the Civil War?”

The
Night Vale Historical Society has chosen as their winner an alternate
history where the Beatrix Lowman Memorial Meditation Zone was never
built. It will be added to the curriculum of all history classes from
here on out, and the Meditation Zone will be destroyed so that
reality can match the story we have decided to tell about it.

Well,
that’s a shame. But that’s just how history works sometimes, you
know?

Stay
tuned next for a hypothetical history that we are all making up
together, continuously, just by living it.

Goodnight,
Night Vale. Goodnight.


America has weird things in it. It has so many miles, so much space
to put the weirdness in.

 Here’s what you
missed this year on Alice Isn’t Dead.

 I
started to look through your things. I had left them alone, didn’t
want to get tangled in memories just yet. But now they weren’t
memories. They were evidence.

…

He was bent horribly backwards, like
his spine was broken, and he was loosely swinging his arms back and
forth in a circle, so that they slapped his chest and his back. SLAP
SLAP! SLAP! He gurgled.

…

You know what I love more than
anything else? Cruise control. I love cruise control more than I love
most of my family members. And – sorry to all aunts and uncles and
cousins, you are great people – that cramp in your ankle from
holding the gas pedal at the angle just so is the devil. And cruise
control is the host of Heaven banishing it away.

 Alice Isn’t Dead.
The complete Season One. Available right now wherever you listen to
podcasts 

.


Alice, I…I wish I could have seen you again. I guess that’s what
this always was, I just…I wish that I could have seen you again.
Just that. Okay. Okay. 

] Whatever happens next, is
what happens.

Episode 93 - Big Sister


Find it in your heart. You’ll need to
break past the ribs, and then scoop it out. But it’s in there, and
you need to find it. 

.

Welcome
to Night Vale.

To
start the news today, there’s a bake sale this Saturday afternoon at
Night Vale Elementary. This is to raise money for a new sculpture to
honor the great contributions made by the current School Board
president, the Glow Cloud.

The
Glow Cloud is mighty and magnificent! All hail the powerful Gowing
Cloud which rules our every desire, our every action, our very
existence! All hail that which did not create us, but can certainly
destroy us.

The
sculpture will serve as a physical manifestation of our fealty to the
benevolent (yet oppressive) Cloud, who has helped increase
standardized test scores at every school, as well as graduation rates
at Night Vale High. The Glow Cloud (

) also helped to
build a brand new Fine Arts Center and rehearsal studios for music
programs at the junior high, so good work! Well deserved.

In
unrelated news, several five-headed dragons have been seen around
Night Vale. Night Vale’s most famous five-headed dragon (really the


 dragon we know in
Night Vale) is Hiram McDaniels, who is currently in prison, slated
for execution for his attempt to kill Mayor Dana Cardinal.

None
of these new dragons are Hiram, but they’re all five-headed and quite
large.

My
intern Kareem reports that the apparent leader of these new dragons
is Hadassah McDaniels, Hiram’s sister. Not sure what their intentions
are, but…I bet they’re innocuous. Just some dragons passing
through!

Kareem
argues that their intentions seem rather sinister. For instance, they
nearly burned down the Pinkberry by the mall.

You
know, a few weeks ago I asked for mochi on my order at that
Pinkberry, and they put 

on
it, as if anybody likes that garbage? So, I don’t know. Innocuous,
sinister…six one way, half a dozen the other, 1.5 times 4 another
way.

Listeners,
can I just take a moment to thank our intrepid intern Kareem? He’s
been at the station for a long time, a dedication few of our interns
have ever shown. In fact, most radio interns leave in the first few
weeks, never to be heard from again. Not Kareem! He’s truly loyal to
this station and to his radio dreams. I think he’ll have a long
career ahead of him.

Haha!
Kareem is cocking his head and raising one eyebrow at me. Kind of a
face-based thumbs-up, I suppose.

Ha!
You’re welcome, Kareem!

Let’s
have a look now at sports.

The
Night Vale High School Scorpions kick off their season this Friday
night at Memorial Stadium against the Pine Cliff Lizard Monitors.
Night Vale’s new quarterback, sophomore Mallory Willingham, won the
starting job over junior Henry Lexington, who really struggled last
year with some of the basic concepts of throwing…like which arm to
use.

In
the season finale last December, Lexington brought a third arm he
found in the vacant lot out back of the Ralph’s. He used that arm to
throw for five touchdowns in a victory over the Stone Meadow Shark
Nurses. But even with this impressive finale, coach Nazr al-Mujaheed
said he preferred the consistency Willingham brought to the position.

“Willingham
has great vision!” coach al-Mujaheed said, while crouching behind a
large cardboard box in the corner of his office. “She can see
things no one else can!” the coach screamed, his body quivering.
“She can see your soul, right 

!”
he whispered, while still screaming.

“She’s
coming! Hide! She’s coming!” he said, suddenly, as he barricaded
his office by hammering wood planks over the door.

Willingham
sounds like just what this team needs to make the playoff once again.

Tim
Langley, head of the Night Vale chapter of the NRA, announced today
some changes to their charter, saying that, from now on, the NRA will
no longer use the words gun, rifle, pistol, semi-automatic, or
revolver. Instead, those words (and related words) will be replaced
by the word “kitten.” As in “Kittens don’t kill people, people
kill people” and “Going down, kittens a-blazing” and “well,
if you’re holding a kitten to my head…”

Langley
said the word “gun” carries too many negative connotations, while
the word “kitten” does not. Langley stressed the importance of
positive language when attempting to rally a public behind an
organization with such monstrous political beliefs.

Langley
and the NRA then distributed flyers across town that read, “Don’t
let the government take our kittens!” which caused several excited
residents to call City Hall. They demanded to know whether the
government truly planned to come to their homes and take away their
kittens. Because, the residents said, their cat just had a bunch of
kittens, and they’re having trouble finding homes for them. So, if
the government wants to take some kittens, 

,
by all means, come to our house and take them!

This
then excited the members of the City Council, who apparently 


kittens. They ruched out, answering every call for kittens. But then,
upon seeing that many of the residents who had kittens also had guns
in their homes, well the City Council ordered the guns removed.

“Yeah,
we’ve lost our appetite for kittens,” the Council snarled in
unison. “We’re now entering every home in Night Vale and taking
away your guns.

An
update on the dragons:

Kareem
scored a prison interview with Hiram McDaniels. Hiram’s gold, green,
blue, and gray heads have been sentenced to death for trying to kill
Mayor Cardinal. According to Kareem, Hiram has been shackled inside a
large stone room. Just outside his barred window, Hiram can see
prison guards inflating colorful mylar balloons that read, “Execution
Day” and “Congrats” and “Lordy, Lordy, Guess Who’s 

”
– but “40?” has been crossed out and replaced with a
hand-written “Being Terminated!”

His
violet head will be spared, since he did not participate in the
attack on the mayor – and, in fact, thwarted the assassination
attempt. Just last month, Hiram’s violet head received the Sheriff’s
Black Heart Medal for Bravery and Service to the Community. Sheriff
Sam themself pinned it right onto Violet’s thick scaly skin.

Kareem
reports that in spite of his pending execution, Hiram is in good
spirits. Hiram’s gold head told Kareem, “Son, I’m not worried. I’ve
got some plans in the works. Some really smart plans.” Then Hiram
winked four times, with one eye on each of his hour heads up for
execution.

Violet
did not wink, only glowered, saying, “

”

Hiram’s
green head snarled, “Complaining is not a strategy! We need
solution-based contributions!”

Kareem
asked Hiram if these plans involved inviting his sister and all the
other dragons into town. Hiram went silent.

“Now…now,
that’s not it at all!” his gold head replied.

“That’s
not logical! It makes no sense for her to be here,” Hiram’s blue
head stated.

“Night
Vale is doomed, but I am too, so who cares?” his gray head
concluded.

More
on this as it develops. But first, a word from our sponsor.

Draw
a rectangle on your wall. Make it a big rectangle, wider than it is
tall. Put it at eye level, across from your sofa. Then color it in,
all black. A big, black rectangle on your wall.

Now
erase the black coloring and then draw a picture – let’s say, of
Nathan Fillion from the TV show 

.
Next to him, draw the actor Molly Quinn, who plays his daughter
Alexis on the show.

You


 Castle. It’s a
good show. Let’s say it’s your favorite scene from Castle where Rick
and Alexis reconcile their differences after an important court case.

So,
they’re talking to each other. Rick is about to say, “I’m sorry.”

Okay.
Got that? Now, erase that and draw the same scene again, only they’ve
moved ever-so-slightly Rick is just beginning to open his mouth now.

Got
it? Good.

No
erase that and do it again, Rick’s mouth slightly more open as he
begins the first sound of the word “I’m.” Maybe draw Alexis
gently lowering her eyes to receive his statement, still a bit unsure
about what is to come.

Keep
doing that: erasing and redrawing frame by frame, each fraction of a
second, until you have fully animated the scene.

Time
consuming, isn’t it? Perhaps you should get a Samsung smart TV. We’ll
flicker all these images and stories at you without you even having
to move! No offense, but we’re much faster at it than you are. Also,
Nathan Fillion looks nothing like that. Did you think we said Nathan
Lane? I mean, he’s a talented actor too, but he was 


on Castle. Were you thinking of Modern Family? We bet you were
thinking of Modern Family

Samsung.
Stop drawing on your wall!

Intern
Kareem says he has seen Hadassah in downtown near City Hall,
accompanied by several other multi-headed dragons. She’s a full ten
feet taller than Hiram, and like Hiram, Hadassah has exactly five
heads. But instead of being several different colors, each are green.
Each one shouts simultaneously (overlapping, though; not in unison),
“Bring me my brother!” and “I will crush your human skulls in
my claws!” and “That’s not a knife, 


is a knife!” And then, arcing toward the sky, a great breath of
fire – which Kareen said did not resemble a knife at all.

Just
an aside, listeners, Kareem has always been a bit of a cynic. He used
to say he didn’t think Hiram McDaniels wasn’t really a five-headed
dragon, but an elaborate metaphor I made up for a dangerous man. A
strange point of view for a young man who openly acknowledges the
existence of angels, so…I hope he understands 


that Hadassah’s knife comment was a metaphor. The dragons themselves
are a literality.

Anyway,
it’s good that these young interns get a chance to see the world for
themselves, rather than just in textbooks and classrooms. I do hope
that Kareem is getting a lot lot out of the– 


…And
I just got word from Kareem that he thinks he broke his ankle diving
out of the way of Hadassahs’s flaming breath as she stormed towards
City Hall.

I
don’t use metaphors lightly, Kareem. Dragons are 

,
young man!

Mayor
cardinal and Sheriff Sam have appeared on the steps of City Hall.

Kareem,
who is trying ti maintain consciousness in the face of crippling
pain, says they are confronting Hadassah directly. Dana is extending
an open palm as a welcoming show of peace. Sam is clenching their
shotgun and shouting at the dragons, “Keep your wig on, you
overgrown salamanders!”

Behind
them, a large cloud – glowing and rumbling, dropping dead animals.
ALL HAIL! a few of the dragons are whispering upon seeing the cloud
approach.

But
not Hadassah.

Dana
is waving a hand to both Sam and the Glow Cloud to stand down, bu the
dragons are closing in on her.

Listeners,
has Hadassah come to finish what Hiram started? I told Kareem to get
out of there (but also to get closer to the action – really try to
get that story) but also to gt very far away.

As
we wait to learn Dana’s fate, let me take you know to the weather.

Kareem
has gotten himself to the hospital to get his ankle looked at. Seems
he’ll need to be in a cast for a few weeks, but fortunately, before
he passed out from the pain, he managed to get a report of what
happened at City Hall.

Mayor
Cardinal stepped toward Hadassah and welcomed her to the city. Dana
was cautious, and graceful.

Hadassah
sneered at Sam and their shotgun, until Dana told Sam to lower the
weapon. Hadassah screamed at Dana, “We do not come in peace. We com
with lawyers!”

Then
several of the dragons behind her retched fire into the
sky…apparently in agreement? Or to signal that they were the
lawyers? Or perhaps they saw some idiot bird fly too close to them?

Hadassah
introduced her cousin, Miriam Adleman, and two of her close friends,
Tara Partridge and George Andrews, who are all lawyers brought here
to discuss the imprisonment and threatened execution of the citizen
of their world.

Sam
said, “You’re not welcome here,” and then, to empathize their
point, crafted a papier-mâché horn-of-plenty filled with
artichokes.

Hours
later, after Sam finished the sculpture, Dana said, “but you 


welcome here! We welcome 


people!”

Hadassah
said, “We are not people!”

Dana
disagreed. “You are sentient, you have cares, you have families and
careers, and community. You love and you fear others. I respect you
and you respect me, because we are all people, even if we are not all
human or dragon. Respect does not need to include “getting along
with” or “fully understanding,” but simply acknowledging that
those things are possible. Because of sovereignty and sentience.
Because we respect people as people, you are welcome in Night Vale.”

There
was a long silence. Then, Sheriff Sam slapped their forehead and
groaned. “What are you doing, mayor? This is a blinking disaster!”

The
Glow Cloud shrunk away, disappointed (or scared…or possibly bored,
or something). It’s hard to tell exactly how clouds feel just by
looking at them.

Dana
and Sam argued over how welcome the dragons were until Hadassah
roared, “THANK YOU MAYOR!” and Miriam agreed. Her beige head
saying, “This will do nicely. I’ll find ourselves a suitable
extended-stay Hotel.

Miriam’s
maroon head said, “I normally don’t trust humans, but…she seems
kind.

Miriams’s
purple head uttred, “Kindness and trust are not related.”

Dana
and the dragons shook hands/claws, as did Sam (although reluctantly).

Hadassah
shouted, “We begin negotiations next week!”

So
it looks like we have some new residents in Night Vale! I really
appreciate Dana and her openness to people from all backgrounds.
She’s one of the kindest and most fair people I know. I cannot think
of a better mayor.

But,
given what happened to Kareem today, I’m worried about the violent
nature of dragons. Not that they’ll intentionally destroy us,
necessarily, but just the physical destruction that comes with beings
a dozen times your size.

Oh,
Kareem just texted me, by the way. I guess he’s listening to the show
right now from the hospital. He says, “When elephants dance, the
grass gets trampled.”

Hmm.
Kareem sounds confused. There are no elephants in town, and every
little grass, so…you know what? I’m going to text Kareem back and
explain to him what an elephant is. I mean, he may not know.

Stay
tuned next for the sound of distant drums and cannons.

And
as always, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 94 - All Right


It’s
all right. All right. Allll right. Allllllll right.

Welcome
to Night Vale.

Listeners,
your headphones are not malfunctioning. I 


you are wearing headphones, as instructed by that Sheriff’s Secret
Police mandate last week. This was for your protection and safety,
and also to boost headphone sales, now that the city has acquired a
local headphone manufacturer as a municipal asset.

I am
reporting today only from your right ear. Or, if you have difficulty
hearing in that ear, simply reverse your headphones so that you can
easily hear me with one ear. Please remove the headphone from the ear
that you are not hearing me from. I need you to be able to hear the
world around you. This is vitally important to your continued
survival.

We
have been informed that a very dangerous creature has accidentally
been released into Night Vale by the federal government, and it could
be any place that this radio signal reaches. It could be near you
now, hungry, hunting.

When
asked for specifics about the creature, representatives from the
government said, “What creature?” and whistled nonchalantly,
while tossing out leaflets with titles like “Running: A Healthy
Hobby, But Futile Against the Beast” and “What To Do When You are
Doomed.”

Please,
throughout today’s broadcast, keep one ear open to what is around
you. Listen for what could well be stalking you. This creature is an
expert at stealth. A brutal, perfect killer. Any noise you hear, no
matter how slight, no matter how 


normal, could be the claw step, the tip of the tentacle, the opening
of the jaws of this monster.

Keep
one ear open, and keep one ear on my voice.

And
now, the news.

Citizens
in Old Town Night Vale are reporting a weird sound. It’s not the
usual racket of the sun setting (which just seems to get louder every
day). No. It’s something underground. A “

.”

Here,
I know. Put your finger in the ear that doesn’t have a headphone. Go
on, no one is looking. Create a seal around the ear canal. Now
slightly lift that finger. Now put it back. Slightly up, and then
sealed again. That is the exact sound Old Town Night Vale is hearing
from below them. Finger slightly up, and then–

Oh.
Oh, no. Somebody saw you with your finger in your ear! That is 

!
You must be very embarrassed right now.

Um,
try to play it off as an itch. You were just scratching your ear! No
weird stuff!

The
local water utility said that the sound is just routine sewer work,
designed to maintain an efficient waste system in our community, and
provide better defenses against the snakes who live in the sewers and
often come up out of pipes, curled up in toilets and bathtubs,
waiting for us. If you are near a bathroom, go ahead and listen for
snakes in there. It’s never a bad time to check for that. Head on
over. Go inside.

Do
you hear a snake? No? Okay, the snake that’s in that bathroom is very
quiet. Quiet snakes are even more dangerous. Simply seal up that
bathroom ad never go back inside it.

And
now, back to the creature that will kill one of my listeners very
soon.

Pay
close attention to the world around you. Try to pick out the noise of
the creature. It could be 


noise. Try separating the noises around you by type. The artificial
sounds: radios, a car engine, a plane engine, a microwave. The
natural sounds: birdsong, wind, the rumble of an earthquake. The
unnatural sounds: ghostly footsteps, the crackle of your aura, a
psychic scream for help, sent to you by a stranger.

Did
anything in those sounds seem out of place?

Hmm.
Maybe instead, sort them by pitch. First, take in the low sounds: the
rumbles that you feel in the base of you. Then the middle sounds:
those that don’t affect you physically, that you only 


rather than 

.
Then the high sounds: those that touch first the teeth and the eyes,
that scratch at the ears.

Did
anything in those sounds seem out of place?

It’s
vitally important that you identify the out of place sound around
you, as just now, a dangerous creature is coming for you. Its eyes
are on you, from a hidden place, and the only chance you have of
survival is to hear its approach.

What
was that sound from behind you? Probably nothing. But better to
check, right?

Of
course, you have one ear covered during all of this. An obvious
weakness. It knows which side you can’t hear it from, so that is the
side it will attack. Maybe we should switch sides, see if it has been
coming at you from the right this whole time. Put on the other
headphone and take this one off.

Okay.
Hello from this side. Listen to the sounds coming from your right. Do
you hear something like a running toward you, or a hissing growl?
That could be it. Do you hear the hum of an air conditioner? That
could also be it. It could have switched off your air conditioner,
and then imitated that dull breathy drone you had long since tuned
out, using that sound to cover its approach, only seconds now from
its teeth tearing into your neck!

Okay,
switching to this side didn’t seem to help anything. Let’s switch
back. Right headphone in, this one out.

Okay.
I’m going to go on with the broadcast now, but keep one ear on the
world. Death could come at any moment.

And
now, a word from our sponsors.

Today’s
show is sponsored by a company that makes more than you’d expect.
Sure, they’re famous for that one thing, but did you know they make a
whole lot more than that? Look around you! Do you see an object that
immediately jumps out? Maybe it’s on the coffee table, or in the cup
holder of your car, or on the ground next to the quiet country road
you’re walking down. Yes, that thing! That’s the one! We made that!
Aren’t you proud of us?

Pick
it up. Hold it up to your left ear. What do you hear? Does the object
make a sound? Is it possible that other sounds you thought were
coming from other sources are actually coming from the object itself?

No?
Oh, my! Aren’t we very confident about how the world works!

Rub
it against your face. You don’t want to do that? Because it’s heavy –
or it was just sitting in the dirt, or because it’s alive. Hey, we
made this thing. We made it just for you! Don’t be ungrateful! Just
touch it once to your cheek so you can feel the quality we built into
it.

Did
the sound that it’s making change at all? Maybe you’ve made it happy!
Or angry.

Shake
it once. Did that change its sound? Did that change its mood? Is it
making a buzzing sound? If it is, 

,
it’s definitely angry now. Uh, in fact, maybe you picked up the wrong
thing and that wasn’t the thing that we make. That might have been a
wasp nest.

We’re
sorry we told you to hold a wasp nest up to your face.

Kleenex.
We make more things than you think. But not wasp nests.

Sorry.

And
now for the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner. Today we will be
exploring the mystries of interaction.

Say
hello. Out loud.

“Hello!”

Good!

Did
anything say “hello” back? Then you are now in a conversation!

Did
nothing say “hello” back? Then you might still be in a
conversation with something very quiet. Best to be polite and carry
on so as not to rudely call attention to their silence.

“How
are you?” you should say.

Listen
for the answer.

“I
myself am doing well,” you will say now. And then say, “Troubles
that once seemed insurmountable turned out to be just a tone of the
wind, you know?”

See
if whatever you’re having a conversation with knows.

“And
how are the kids?” you might ask. Maybe they don’t have kids, in
which case indicate that you are asking about the general state of
children, the condition of the youth worldwide.

Maybe
they recently lost a child, and this is a very painful topic for
them.

You
should have thought of that. Your words are knives, and like knives,
they can be useful and constructive, but with one careless slip they
can seriously hurt someone.

You
should apologize. Even if they weren’t hurt by these words, they
might have been hurt by other words, words you never considered as
potentially hurtful.

“I’m
sorry,” you should say now. And then say, “Well, okay. Goodbye.
Sorry again.”

And
that is how interaction works.

This
has been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

City
Council is announcing that efforts to capture the terrible creature
terrorizing Night Vale have not gone well. They fear they won’t be
able to capture it before it has eaten someone – someone who is
listening to me speak, with one ear, right now.

It
might be best if everyone listening to this moved to a different
location. Maybe somewhere else would be safer. If possible, move to a
different location now. Try to find a new and completely different
set of sounds to work with. That might help!

It
probably won’t. Probably nothing can save you, but worth a shot,
right?

Have
you moved somewhere else? Listen to the new set of sounds available
to you. Do you hear one specific sound above the rest? Good! City
officials believe that sound is safe. Move toward that sound.

Wonderful.
You are doing great…is something it would be good to believe just
in case you die right now. That way you’ll die thinking something
happy.

Get
as close to the sound as possible. Do you feel safer near it?

Uh-oh.
City Council said that they mistyped. By the way, did you know that
City Council finally got a cell phone? Just one cell phone. They
share one, and so there’s a lot of fighting over it and most of the
texts they send are random letters or the dance emoji over and over.

Anyway.
Their text was wrong. That noise is actually very likely the sound of
the terrible thing hunting you. You are right on it! Get as far from
that noise as you can! Get away now!

For
those who weren’t devoured when we accidentally told you to get close
to the sound, uh, let’s have a look at traffic.

Traffic
is really humming along today.

Hey!
Speaking of humming, you know how it sounds completely different when
you have your ears covered versus when your ears are open? What does
it sound like when you have half of your ears covered, you do think?

Hum
to yourself. No, louder than that! We’ll never discover new things
about the world if we don’t put ourselves out there!

Oh.
If the creature is stalking you, than it already knows exactly where
you are. Trying to keep quiet won’t save you.

Hum.

Interesting!
So 


what that sounds like!

In
your own time, compare it to having both ears open and both ears
closed.

Also,
a horrible accident on Route 99 happened while I was talking about
humming, and the highway is now closed in both directions until
everyone feels emotionally prepared to drive again.

This
has been traffic.

Oh
no! I’m being told via several frantic texts from City Council that
the monster is going to attack in just moments!

They
also sent another long string of dance emojis.

If
you are the target of the monster, then the end of your life is
imminent. I need you to pay close attention to the sounds of the
world around you. I need you to listen for the terrible creature so
close to you that its breath could easily be mistaken for a slight
breeze, or for a stream of air blowing from a window or a vent.

Turn
around, slowly, in a circle. If you cannot turn, just pivot your
head.

Try
to identify which of the sounds you hear is going to kill you. When
you have heard a sound that seems most likely to kill you, stop and
face that sound.

Try
to keep your eyes on the apparent source of the sound. Hope that you
haven’t guessed wrong. Hope that you are not moments from a fierce
and sudden pain.

Actually,
on the off chance that you are about to die, it’s probably best you
don’t see it coming. Close your eyes, put your other headphone on.

Yes.
We’re listening to me on both sides now. We’re going to keep our eyes
closed, and wait to see if we die.

And
while we wait, let’s have a look at the weather.

[“

”
by 

]

Listeners,
those who can still hear me, hey! You can still hear me! An you can
still hear the world around you! Yes, we’re back over here now.
Please take the headphone off your other ear so you can savor the
sounds of the world around you. And your ability to hear them, when
you are not dead.

So,
you were not eaten by a hidden creature watching from the shadows. A
false alarm, everything is fine.

A
false alarm for 

,
I mean. Not for Night Vale resident Wayne Ferry, who was in fact the
target of the creature, and was horribly devoured during our weather
forecast. Blood smeared on the wall like an ancient language that can
express only suffering and terror. The dank smell of the beast heavy
in the air, the signs of its passage in the shattered objects, the
smashed walls, and the heavy final absence of Wayne.

So,
for everyone else, everything is fine! We got all worried over
nothing. Whoo!

I
know my role. You come to me for escape, loyal listeners. To forget
about the world, or…not to 


about it, but to hear its dangers organized, put into a narrative
framework, turned into a story that can safely end.

But
no matter how deeply you enter into the stories I am telling you, you
can never 


escape. The world is around you. You can hear it with one of your
ears right now.

Listen
closely. What you are hearing is not the sound of a monster. There
are no spirits in that sound. No lurking or lurkers, no stalking or
stalkers, nothing hunting you. All you were hearing is the sound of
the world you live in. And you can put headphones on. You can listen
to my voice. But you can never fully escape that world. You are
always half there, no matter where the rest of you is.

But
in those sounds, in that inescapable world, there is every joy you
will ever experience. Every beautiful person you will ever meet.
Every wonderful surprise that will ever wonderfully startle you.

It
is the good and the bad. It is the sound of the world. A world that



kill you, but also a world that will allow you to live.

And
as you exist in this world, half hearing my half voice, remember:
you’re all right. You are alllll right.

All
right, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Episode 95 - Zookeeper


It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a cursed talisman must be in want of a hex reversal.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Night Vale, we have a special treat for you today. Joanna Rey, head zookeeper at the Night Vale Zoo, joins us live in studio. She’s also brought in several animals for us to see. Since this is radio, if you are not a telepath or an omnipresent spirit, you won’t be able to see them. You’ll just have to imagine the animals, but that shouldn’t be difficult. As the old saying goes, “a thousand words is worth a picture.” So today’s show should be worth about 2.6 pictures. You will also be able to envision 2.6 animals during today’s show. 

 Joanna, welcome to our program.

 Thanks for having me!

 I can see you brought in some really interesting.. what are those, raccoons? 

 These are chickens.

 [fascinated] Oooh!

 One of the evolutionary defensive traits of the chicken is its resemblance to the raccoon. For instance, both animals have two eyes and antennae, and like the raccoon, the chicken is mortal, which is a term zoologists use to describe animals that eventually die.

 Hmm, I remember as a small child I found a dead raccoon in our yard, and I told my mother about it. I thought it was sleeping. But that day, my mother sat me down and explained death to me. “Cecil,” she said, “most of God’s creatures are born, and then one day they die. Just like you and me, one day both of us will die. One of us will do so in a much more eventful way than the other, unlike this raccoon, which died from a rock I dropped on it. 

 Why did your mother drop a rock on a raccoon? 

 [amused] Oh, she was always a jokester, always up to some kind of prank. Dropping rocks on people and animals was just her way of kidding around. Anyway, these chickens are gorgeous, with their bright orange and yellow wings and dozens of spiny legs. What’s weird is I always assumed chickens were mythical, because I’ve never seen one in person.

Mm, a lot of people make that mistake in logic. But just because you cannot see something, doesn’t mean it doesn’t exist. This is something zoologists must always remember, because there are so many creatures not visible to human sight. Like amoebas and microbes and ghost horses. When visitors come to the Night Vale Zoo, staff members from our audience education team often hide in the shrubbery and then jump out shouting, “I’m real!” at the blindfolded zoo goers, just to educate people on the existence of things they can’t see.

 I’ve learned a lot of neat things while wearing a blindfold! We’ll get back to your wonderful creatures in a moment, Joanna, but first today’s news. 

[growling]

 Wait, what was that? 

 Nothing. What? I didn’t hear a low growling sound. [laughs nervously] Is it hot in here? 

 Ookay, uh, let’s have a glance at traffic. The roads are totally clear today, it’s a real mess out there. No one can see where the streets are, because they are completely transparent. I’d like to tell you which avenues and intersections to avoid, but since they’re virtually invisible, that information is useless. Perhaps try walking or just staying at home.

 Wow! Glad I flew here today instead of driving, huh? 

 Good call!

An update on Old Woman Josie. Several of you have written in, via email and spray paint on the station walls, that you want to know how she’s doing. Well, she’s out of the hospital, back home and recovering nicely. Apparently Josie’s daughter Alondra has come back to Night Vale to help care for her. I rarely hear Josie mention her children, and she didn’t say much about Alondra this time either. Apparently Alondra decided to return to her home town to take care of her mother, because she didn’t want an old woman with a broken hip trying to live on her own. Josie insisted that she wasn’t living alone, that she had several, what she refers to as.. angels, named Erika, who are taking care of her. As well as her StrexCorp foundation, which supports not only the New Old Opera House, but also several local arts groups, a library destruction fund, and the popular charity Cars for Kids, which provides cars to kids who do not have cars. The angels, according to Josie, have lived at her house for several years and have shown nothing but grace, love, and support for her, unlike her family who moved away from the desert. Josie definitely sounds upset, and sometimes the forced bond of family relationships can be frustrating. But having family to take care of you when you live alone is a true blessing. 

Um, listeners, Intern Kareem is shaking his head at me and saying Josie lives with the angels. [shouting] Now we went over this in the meeting, Kareem! We do not acknowledge the existence of angels, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, Josie lives alone, there’s no one to take care of her! Oh come on, don’t walk out! Ugh. There he goes, a man who doesn’t believe in time-traveling trains or deer-faced destroyer gods, but deny a single angel and he’s throwing a fit. Well, best wishes to Old Woman Josie, and welcome back to Night Vale, Alondra. 

 So let’s get back to your fantastic zoo animals, Joanna. 

: Sure thing! Let me just get this cage up here on the desk.

 Listeners, Joanna is lifting what looks like a solid steel cube, onto the desk. She’s opening it. Lots of steam or vapor is coming out, I’m so excited. What kind of exotic creature has she brought for us in such a dramatic carrying case? 

 These, Cecil, are brown tarantulas. [chuckles]

 [disappointed] Oooh.

 You don’t sound excited. 

 Well, brown tarantulas are fairly common in the desert, I-I was hoping for something exotic like chickens.

 Of course, but the reason I brought these tarantulas is to talk about our animal development initiative. Zoos not only display animals in tiny enclosures for the public to gawk at, but we also train and rehabilitate many of these animals. Sometimes animals we bring in have been badly injured, or in the case of these tarantulas, horribly undereducated. You might not notice just by looking at them, but our animal development team has taught these tarantulas to read! They are fully sentient. That’s Samantha, that’s Jordy, that’s Nash, that’s Carmelo. That’s Patrice, that’s Garfield, and somewhere.. Oh, I don’t see where she went, is Helen. Oh, there she is, on the back of your shirt collar!

 [nervously] Aahahaahahahaa-hi, Helen! That’s amazing! I know there are several “teach spiders to read” programs here in Night Vale. It’s great to hear some of them are really working. So uhh Helen, what book are you reading? 

 Oh, tarantulas can’t speak. Or write. Just read.

 So they can read, but not express to anyone what it is they have learned?

 Yup.

 Is there any consideration by the zoo about developing sentience in creatures who live in cages? I mean, do you think that the animals’ self-awareness could bring about stages of depression or resentment, or despair or even rage, if they understood the prison-like conditions in which they lived? 

 Totally. Oh, also I brought in some baby pigs! 

 [squealing] Oh piglets! Oh they’re so cute! Um, your name is Wobbles, and your name, oh, your name is The Professor!

[loud growling noise]

 There’s that noise again. 

 I’m sure it’s nothing. 

 Did you say..? 

 Cecil, it’s fine.

: Oh, OK. Let’s get to our program sponsor now. 

Today’s show is brought to you by Starbucks. Start your day off feeling great. Maybe grab a latte or a caramel macchiato or even a mocha frappuccino on your way to work. Just make sure you’re feeling great first. We’ll know if you’re not. If you purchase one of our products while not feeling great, you’re going to make us not feel great, and that kind of negativity is infectious, you know. Perhaps you think our coffee-related product line will help you get beyond not feeling great into actually feeling great, but you can’t rely on nutritional stimulants to achieve positivity. No, no. Caffeine and sugar will get your energy up, sure, but that crash is coming, and it won’t be pretty. And we don’t want you hanging that on us. Get yourself in a good place. Really be positive. Fake it till you make it, we suppose. But you better be an excellent faker. If we find out you showed up to one of our thousands of Starbucks locations worldwide while unhappy, we are going to be livid. Just beside ourselves, all of us, every Starbucks employee standing in a line, literally beside ourselves, holding hands and saying directly to you: “Don’t come here with your nasty attitude and expect us to bear the weight. Oh no. Oh NO, you will NOT.” 

Starbucks. Cool your hot mess before you show your face around here. 

A few weeks back, we reported several five-headed dragons had arrived in Night Vale. Including Hadassah McDaniels, the sister of current death row inmate, Hiram McDaniels. Most of them are between 10 and 25 feet tall, and all have five heads. We’re getting more and more complaints from local businesses and human Night Vale residents about these dragons. Marjory Valejo, manager of the Dollar Cinema, says each dragon takes up nearly a dozen seats, not to mention obstructing the view of all the seats behind the dragon’s mass of long heads. Teddy Williams, owner of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, had to cancel league nights this week because he’s having to buff out all of the claw marks in the lanes. It was actually lucky for my team, which is down one member, while Old Woman Josie recovers. Bob Stern, vice president of finance for the Night Vale Auto Insurance company, said his company has seen a significant uptick in dragon-initiated accidents, and that they would no longer cover anyone who owns a car. He then deliberately broke his own arm with a wrench and guffawed nervously.

It’s been a tough adjustment, Night Vale, to our five-headed guests from another world, but we are a friendly town. Remember to welcome strangers with a friendly point, as you shout “Interloper!” at them. Also, it’s considered good neighborly behavior to follow strangers home while repeating, “What are you doing? Where you off to?” The dragons, I’m.. um, kind of sure.. mean us no harm. 

Joanna, have you ever seen a dragon upclose?

 [gasps] Yes, one. They’re beautiful things, really intelligent and funny creatures. Fiercely loyal. Well, to their own kind, anyway. I mean, you’re texting with a dragon, “What do you do on Friday?” and she doesn’t text you back, and you’re like, “Donna, I would like to see you, it’s been weeks, is everything OK?” And then one day you get a phonecall and Donna’s gold head is like, “You’re a great woman, I’ve had a nice time but..” and her green head is like, [snaps] “It’s over, Joanna!” and then you’re just crying and crying for what? [angrily] I mean, come on Donna, really? [sighs sadly]

 Soo what other animals have you brought in? 

 Well this is a long-horned steer, so majestic and bold. 

 Wow, look at those horns!

 Also those wings. Wings are the best part of the steer.

 You know, I’m always in awe of animals who can fly.

 Ah, it’s just so delicious! 

[loud growling]

 Joanna? 

[growling intensifies] 

 Joanna, your face it’s.. widening. Your eyes are turning yellow and and and your paws, I mean, your hands are turning into paws. Listeners, Joanna is now.. uh what.. wh-what are you, a-a panther, I think? Oh, she’s jumping onto the, oh oh my ooh, ooh that is, that is not good. 

 [speaking with her mouth full] The wings are the best part in steer, they’re so.. [growling continues]

 Listeners, Joanna is jumping after the hens now. We need to.. oh my god, the piglets. Wobbles! The Professor! No, I.. [squealing noises] OK, well I wish I had not seen that. While we try to restore order, let me take you to the we- Microphones are not for eating! They are smarter than dolphins! Joanna! 

[growling]

[“

” by 

] 

 And we are back. Our special guest today has been Joanna Rey, head zookeeper at the Night Vale Zoo. Thanks for being on our show, Joanna!

 Thanks for having me. 

 You’ve eaten all of the animals you brought in today.

 Well, except for the tarantulas. They wandered off. Not sure where they went. Just like a bunch of spiders to be there one second and gone the next. [laughs]

 Oh, my intern Kareem tells me they all wandered over to the Human Resources department here at the station, and applied for sales jobs. Apparently they were strong interviewers, despite not being able to speak our write.

 Oh, that’s a big success for our animal development initiative! There is so much good a zoo does for animals, besides lock them up and examine them, which is of course just part of maintaining a natural environment for these creatures. Without the conservation efforts of the zoo, these animals would just be locked up and examined by predators.

 But in the confines of the zoo, they seem to be at risk of being devoured by zoo staff members who turns into predatory cats.

 Cecil, that’s my lunch we’re talking about.

 So you just got overwhelmed with hunger, and your body turned into a panther and you ate all the animals? 

 [indignantly] I’m a shapeshifter, Cecil! I only take the form of a cat when I eat, because people get all upset when I devour an entire cow looking like a human. I am sorry about the damage to your studio, I really am. I should have eaten before I came. But don’t be so quick to judge shapeshifters, Cecil! We don’t get “overwhelmed”. We just choose our appearances based on what we want to express, like clothing. You might wear, say, a T-shirt around the house doing chores or while on vacation, but I imagine you have different outfits to wear to work.

 Oh yes. Although today is Plastic Poncho Wednesday so I’m dressed up a bit more, but yeah, for work I usually wear a cummerbund and capri pants, because it’s important to me that people understand I am a journalist. I see what you’re saying Joanna, that’s fair. I bet being able to take the form of different animals in fact makes your job a lot easier at the zoo.

 Hmm. I’ve only ever used this ability to eat lunch, but that’s a great idea! I should try it at work sometime.

 Well thanks for being on our show today, Joanna.

 Sure. You know, there’s still a lot of chicken blood pooling around your desk. Let me get another paper towel.

 Oh oh no no, it’s no bother. Intern Kareem, could you, could you come in here? 

Stay tuned next, Night Vale, for the sound of scrubbing, followed by the sound of gagging. Followed by the sound of liquid dribbling into a metal pan.

And as always, goodnight, Night Vale, goodnight. 

Today’s proverb: Want to feel old? People born in 2014 have already graduated college, don’t know what a trombone is, and are all named after gourds.

[Loud screaming/cawing/hissing and other interesting sounds, followed by laughter]

Episode 96 - Negotiations


You are statistically likely. Welcome to Night Vale. 

Today, negotiations began between the representatives of the five-headed dragons, led by Hadassah McDaniels and her team of lawyers, in an attempt to save her brother and fellow five-headed dragon, Hiram, from execution. He is charged with the attempted murder of Mayor Dana Cardinal, and the attempted overthrow of city government. We will keep you updated on the negotiations as they happen.

But first, the Community Calendar.

On Sunday, we will be holding a parade to celebrate the fact that the world probably won’t end in the next few days.

Monday is Cloud Amnesty Day, the one day a year in which all Night Vale citizens are allowed to acknowledge and talk about clouds. Common topics of discussion include what clouds are made of, what their intentions might be, and why talking about them can result in fines and jail time. The day will end with the usual ceremony, in which the Sheriff’s Secret Police will do their best to arrest the cloud, marking the reinstatement of the cloud ban. Of course, the only exception to this ban is the Glow Cloud, who is almighty and gracious in its cruelty. All hail, as everyone in town says every day, at the exact moment of midnight.

Tuesday, Gino’s Italian Dining Experience and Grill and Bar will be closed for a private event. This private event will be a celebration of Bart Mentenya’s 60th birthday. Bart is only two days old, so the private celebration will last just short of 60 years. Gino’s Italian Dining Experience and Grill and Bar will be back to regular business once it’s over. Happy early 60th, Bart!

Wednesday is now only available to paid subscribers. Please join the Days of the Week membership program to receive this member-exclusive day. 

Thursday is Take Work to Your Daughter Day. Gather up all your coworkers, the furniture and appliances that make up your workspace, all the petty office politics and backroom bickering, the contents of the supply closet, the structure of the supply closet, the entire building that houses your work, and bring it all piece by piece to your daughter. And then reassemble it for her saying, “See? See?” over and over as she, gape-mouthed, watches your work transplanted monstrously into a place it was never meant to be. Be sure to send us cute pictures of her weeping over what you have done.

Friday, the Museum of Forbidden Technologies will be opening its newest exhibit: Lie detectors! A hands-on, interactive and completely mandatory exhibition organized by a vague, yet menacing government agency. Remember: if you have nothing to hide, then you haven’t confessed yet. We will break you. Children and anyone with an implanted government monitoring chip gets half off admission. 

This has been the Community Calendar.

The first round of negotiations over the fate of Hiram McDaniels continues today at City Hall. Not much progress has been made. Mayor Cardinal called a press conference to deliver the following update.

 People of Night Vale. I entered these negotiations to represent you. So much of my job now is to bury myself, my own feelings and thoughts and opinions, and instead act as a proxy to all Night Vale citizens, to do what I think you might want or what is best for you. So here I am, all of Night Vale in one fragile body, entering into conversation with several towering five-headed dragons. This is just scene-setting, I suppose, this is just me letting you know the situation I’m in. The argument from Hadassah and her lead negotiator, Miriam, is that Hiram is a suffering citizen of their world, a world ruled by the five-headed dragons. And so, he must be taken back to their world for trial and punishment under their own justice system. It seems odd that they would send Hiram’s own sister as a representative of that justice system, but who am I? As we discussed before, in many ways, I am no one. I am all of you. I listen politely. I nod. 

Now I will return to this negotiation, the ears of Night Vale, the mouth of Night Vale, the collective head of Night Vale, nodding and listening and talking. More soon from me, from all of us.

 There were no follow-up questions, as the reporters began kissing one another. Dispassionately at first, but with a growing claustrophobic panic a few moments later, as they were unable to stop. Many were heard grunting, their eyes bulging in terror as their arms, against their own desires, began clawing and clutching one another in deep embraces, their lips locked, tongues pressing behind others’ teeth, and noses smashing into cheeks. 

In other news, here is what we know: the spacecraft is 10 miles in diameter, it floats 3 miles up. Here is what we know: it is translucent blue, lit from within. It radiates heat, but is far enough away that the heat is reduced to warmth. Here is what we know: the spacecraft is beautiful. Beautiful like industrial waste pouring neon over a barren dead landscape. Here is what we know: our landscape is not barren or dead. It is just dry. Here is what we know: the landscape around Night Vale is many landscapes, different depending on viewing angle and time of day. Now a wall of searing sunlight and hot sand, now a carpet rolling away into an inviting distance. This is not any sort of mystical thing, this is just how landscapes work. Here is what we know: the spacecraft has intentions. Here is what we don’t know: what those intentions are. Here is what we don’t know: what we will do next, what anyone will do next, what next. Here is what we know: the spacecraft is 10 miles in diameter, it floats 3 miles up. 3 miles below it, there is us, knowing almost nothing at all.

This has been the news. 

In other news, local star reader and commander of an armed militia, Tamika Flynn, turned 16 years old today. To celebrate, Tamika asked to read a statement to our radio audience. And who am I to turn down such a bright young woman with such a powerful and violent army backing her? Ahaha, she truly terrifies me. Let’s throw it to Tamika.

 Night Vale, today is my birthday. In many ways, this milestone is meaningless. Time passes incessantly, not annually. I’m always older than I was, always more knowledgeable and experienced. Every day, I have more memories than I did the day before. But our culture tells me this day means something. So fine, I will make it mean something. I spent my morning in quiet contemplation, reading our culture’s great religion texts, like 

 and the 

. I know now the path forward. From this day on, I am no longer the teen leader of an armed teen militia. I am the leader, no adjective, of a militia with only one adjective: armed. I no longer content with being a curiosity, or a good local story, or even just a teen. I want responsibility and respect, and I believe I have earned them. I do not ask for a place in Night Vale hierarchy, I demand it. Or even more, I take it without waiting for permission. And so, it is with great pleasure, and without leaving any room for dissent or protest, that I hereby appoint myself to City Council. If the multi-body being or beings that make up the current City Council would like to discuss this appointment, I will be waiting for them with the full force of my militia out on the Sand Wastes. If not, I’ll see you at the next meeting. Leave a chair open for me, or else. You can’t see me, but I’m pointing at the librarian I’ve had stuffed and mounted. It was difficult to get the tentacles just right, but my taxidermist Regina did an exquisite job. 

And to Night Vale, from your newest and youngest city appointee: I will fight for you. After all, what else is an armed militia for? Thanks for all your birthday wishes. Happy birthday to you as well. On this day, all of us are older. Let us celebrate that with cake! 

 Wow! An unexpected development from Tamika Flynn! City Council has responded by running up the walls of their chamber and yowling like cats, but they seem disinclined to take up her offer of confrontation, so it seems that we have a new member of the City Council for the first time.. well, ever. My best to Councilwoman Flynn. 

Simone Rigadeau, the transient who lives in the Earth Sciences Building of the Night Vale Community College, is reopening classes, which have not been offered in that department since 1983. The curriculum will be modified slightly from the original Earth Sciences program, removing courses such as Elementary Oceanography and Environmental Geology to make room for new course work including “1983 – the Year the World Ended?” and “Clear and Distant Danger: the Terrible Mysteries of the Distant Prince”. And one course that’s title is the emoji of a silhouette of a woman, an emoji of the map of Italy, and an emoji of an innocent human being living within a perpetual waking nightmare, never able to escape. It’s good to see education embraced once again in the Earth Sciences building. You know, it’s been a fair bit of time since I went to college. Maybe I’ll take a few of those just for my own self-improvement. I mean, education doesn’t stop when you’re a grown up, you know. And re-education never stops, as long as you don’t perfectly echo the City Council and world government’s policies and dictates.

Update from City Hall. It appears that negotiations are breaking down. Also possibly, City Hall itself, as the building is shaking and smoke is pouring from several of its windows. Mayor Cardinal is leaning out one of those windows and is giving a statement. We go now to that statement. 

 Whoa! Well. It is not going great in here, obviously. They want us to send Hiram back to his own world, to be tried and punished under their own laws for attempting to violently overthrow Night Vale’s government. So I asked them, well, what’s the punishment for that over in five-headed dragon world? And Miriam said, “Nothing, that’s just how governments change. You don’t punish someone for doing their civic duty by throwing a coup or assassinating a head of state. What you do is give them a sticker with a flag on it, and the words “I overthrew”, so that everyone will know that you are a good citizen who participates in important civic responsibilities.” I told them I wasn’t about to send Hiram back just to get a sticker, and then Hadassah jumped in and said that if I didn’t send Hiram back, then she might be earning a sticker of her own.

Remember, citizens, in that room I am not me. I am you. I am us. And Hadassah was threatening us. So I told her, “You are not the first five-headed dragon to threaten me or to threaten my town. It didn’t go well for the last one, it will go even worse for you.” Which is all to say that the negotiations are going fine. I mean, Hadassah threatened to level this city, but I think that’s just what’s called a negotiating ploy. I wouldn’t worry about it.

Overall, I’m pretty calm about most things. The stress of this job would be unbearably otherwise. Hey, knock that off! Ugh, hold on. 

Listeners, it appears that Hadassah is making good on her threat. She is tearing at City Hall and.. Oh no! Oh, oh.. City Hall has collapsed! The enormous dragons are shrugging off the wreckage like so much particles of dust and are now advancing on the rest of Night Vale. Negotiations are going poorly, negotiations are going very poorly. Uh, oh the weather is nice though, let’s hear about that!

[“A Trip Out” by 

]

Thank you for your patience, Night Vale. I know things were scary there for a moment, but I hope you held on to your trust in me. Hadassah and her dragons have leveled most of this city. Entire neighborhoods reduced to a smoulderscape, smoke and rock. Schools, hospitals, nothing was safe. Everything was destroyed. But as I suspected, the whole thing was just a negotiating ploy and I held firm. So it’s all fine, we’re back at the table and talking again. We are unfortunately no further along than we were at the start, but now they understand that I am a formidable negotiator, and not one they can scare with cheap tactics, like destroying every building in our story. Anyway, our busy local contractors will get right to work rebuilding everything. They have a lot of practice since, of course, some threat or the other destroys most of the town once or twice a month.

In the meantime, I am you. We are all us. And we are going back to that negotiating table. And Hiram McDaniels is going nowhere at all.

Cecil: A great statement from our great Mayor. Hiram, the subject of all this back-and-forth, said only that he’s not worried at all, that everything is under control, and then four out of five of his heads winked. 

The rest of us, the rest of town, moved on with our lives. The problem wasn’t solved, but most problems don’t get solved. I mean, generally we just do our best to mitigate the problem, and if it can’t be mitigated, then it can be relegated to a background noise by pleasant distractions and a prioritization of interests. We live with hearts that can just stop working at any moment. And yet we still lie in hammocks sometimes, or watch a sitcom, or stare at a spot on the wall thinking of many things, none of them having anything to do with the spot on the wall. Herds of grazing creatures are routinely attacked by predators, but when the attack is over, you know what they do? They go back to eating grass. Let us all, metaphorically, go back to eating grass, or, if you are a member of the Rotary Club, you can go back to literally eating grass, as usual. 

Best to just ignore danger until it’s too late. The end will be the same, but the experience along the way will be far more pleasant.

Stay tuned next for a pilot turning to her co-pilot and saying, “Let’s see what this baby can do.” 

Good night, Night Vale, good night.

Today’s proverb: The children were right. The floor is lava. But they were wrong about the heat-resistance of sofa cushions.

Episode 97 - Josefina


Why 

 birds appear every time you are near? It’s likely they planted a tracking device on you.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Listeners, I’ve been thinking about Old Woman Josie a lot lately. She broke her hip a couple months ago, and has been recovering at home with her daughter Alondra, as well as several beings named Erika whom Josie refers to as.. [whispers] angels. Now it’s illegal to acknowledge the existence of.. angels in Night Vale, but it’s certainly not illegal to point out how loving and kind those beings, whatever they may be, have been to Josie.

I really miss having Josie around, especially since bowling league started back up last month. Apparently, her hip healed but she has had a series of infections that led to her going back to the hospital, where doctors told her there was nothing they could do about the polio virus. Alondra said that her mother didn’t have polio, but the doctors explained it didn’t matter. The virus existed in the world, and there was nothing they could do about it. Alondra pointed out that there was a polio vaccine, had been one for decades. The doctors closed up their books, snorted, and walked briskly from the room saying, [abruptly] “Good day!” without making eye contact. The angels tried to physically carry the doctors back into the room, but Allandra just got an antibiotic prescription and took Josie home.

In today’s show, I wanted to share a little bit with you, Night Vale, about Josefina Ortiz. Her life as a Night Vale citizen, lover of the arts, and friend of mine. 

But first, a word from our sponsors. Today’s show is brought to you by Walmart. For any product you can think of: home, office, garden, automotive, toys, clothes, groceries? There’s your neighborhood Walmart, and our always low prices. For every product you cannot cannot think of: repressed memories, forbidden knowledge, an incorporeal twin sibling dwelling in the back of your brain? Antimatter, uranium? There’s also Walmart. We will sell you anything, whether you can comprehend it or not. Walmart will sell it to you. Sentient maple leaves? Walmart has it. Alternate timeline that avoids a climate change apocalypse? Walmart has it. Immortality? Walmart has it. And we will beat anyone else’s price. Walmart: save money, live in an alternate timeline. [talking very fast] Apocalypse avoidance not guaranteed. Lack of climate change does not preclude nuclear winter, asteroid impact, or solar flares. Please consult the oracle before making any purchases off Walmart. Low price guarantee not available in Mitchigan. 

 To tell some of her fantastic stories today, I’ve asked Josie to join me on the show. I have her on the line now. Hi, Josie! Are you feeling up to league night this week? 

 Hi, Cecil! I’m always up for league night. I’ll be ready next week, or the week after that. I’ve asked my friend Sarah to fill in for me while I’m gone. She’s never bowled before, but she’s a quick learner. She is also a fist-sized river rock, so I’m not sure if she can even pick up a ball and roll it. But like I said, she’s a quick learner. Our team will be just fine.

 Josie, we are talking today about your history in Night Vale. I think more than anything, your love of opera has been your greatest gift to our town.

 My favorite opera growing up was Puccini’s 

. My mother had a copy we played on our Victrola, which we disguised as an icebox, so that the Secret Police did not know about it. Listening to music was illegal then. A minimum of 90 days sentence for anyone caught hearing opera, jazz, or symphonies. Even hearing someone walking in rhythm could be construed as a crime. It wasn’t legalized until John Cage wrote 

. The sheriff had to arrest anyone caught sitting in silence for that length of time, and our prisons became quickly overcrowded, so they decriminalized listening to music. This was great for my father, who had run the old Night Vale Opera House since it was built in 1904. His early productions were rich but colorful, ornate sets and glorious costumes, professionally trained singers who were only allowed to describe what they would sing with their gorgeous booming voices. And orchestras who shouted out, “LOUD MUSIC HERE!” or whispered, “soft music here”, underneath the text. When listening to music became legal, I begged Papi to make 

 the first opera he performed with full singing and orchestration. It’s about an Italian singer whose city is invaded by Napoleon. A young man falls in love with her, but she doesn’t notice because she’s also the general of the Italian army, and she crushes Napoleon, and brings peace to Europe, and frees the enslaved people of Svitz.

 You played me a version of Leontyne Price singing the famous aria from 

. What was that called? 

 It was called 

. Sadly, the old Opera House sat dormant after its last performance in 1983. And ultimately, we had to tear it down in the 1990’s because of the puppy infestation. When we began demolition in 1994, I first met the angels. They wouldn’t reveal themselves to me for another 18 years, but they were very tall and they promised to help me. They had no money and no skills and no real knowledge of opera. I gave them a dollar and told them to get lost.

 Just so the surveillance van across the street can hear, I totally don’t believe in angels. Thanks, Josie. More stories from your time in Night Vale soon. First, let’s get to some news.

Intern Kareem reports that Hiram is in surprisingly good spirits of a five-headed dragon who is on death row. His execution is slated for later this month. His sister, Hadassah, and her five-headed dragon lawyers have been negotiating with Mayor Dana Cardinal for his release. But talks seem to have stalled late last month, when the dragons destroyed most of Night Vale. Hiram spelled out a pretty elaborate escape plan. He told Kareem he had been watching the patterns of the guards in the prison, befriending a few key members of the security staff, and had gotten a friend of his to slip in some contraband to help with breaking the shackles constraining his five necks, wings, tail, and feet. Hiram would not identify the exact name of his friend, but he said she was a Faceless Old Woman who Secretly Lived in Your Home. Wow, Kareem, your report is really hard to read! God, it’s all crossed out. And then you wrote a bunch of stuff in black marker over it, what does this mess even say? “Off the record, do not read on air”. Oh. [beat] OK, umm.. None of what I said just happened, listeners. Hiram’s in prison. That’s the news. 

 And now back to Old Woman Josie. Tell us more about your life in opera.

 My mother passed away when I was 28, and Papi did not last long after that. They were in love since they were 15 and did not want to be apart for longer than they had to be. So I joined the Night Vale Board of Culture in order to stay active with the Opera House and to support other artistic endeavors in town. In my 50 years on the Board of Culture, we started a Youth Orchestra Society, founded the Night Vale Community Theater, ordered the removal of all French horns from the high school marching band, and supported a performance art initiative to put tarantulas in bags and leave them in the back seats of unlocked cars. 

The arts have always thrived here in Night Vale, and many people have applied to serve on the Board of Culture. During my last few years of service, several of the beings who call themselves Erika began applying to be on the board. They still had no money or skill, but they seemed to know a lot more about opera and music and theater. But the city would not allow them on the board, because they said the beings named Erika did not exist. I didn’t understand it at the time, so I asked them all to serve on an unofficial advisory committee I made up to get more arts lovers involved. I didn’t believe in angels, certainly, but I did believe whatever they were, they cared about art.

 Let’s take a news break here, and then we’ll return to Old Woman Josie. 

The Night Vale Transit Authority today announced that they would be reopening the subway, which was closed three years ago, less than half a day after it opened. Spokespersons from the Transit Authority wearing deer masks and performing a ritual dance involving waving hands above their heads whilst squatting with their legs spread outward, distributed roaches to citizens. Upon each roach was a single word. Sometimes the word was something obvious like “train” or “service” or “schedule”. But others had less mass-transit related words like “crates” and “desert” and “destroyer”, and on one particular roach, just the word “Hunto-Kar”. After several hours of people screaming and swatting at their hair and pants, reporters determined that all the word-marked roaches comprised a press release detailing all of the pertinent information about the subway reopening. So as soon as we find all the roaches and place them in the correct order, we’ll bring you more information on the subway. 

 Speaking of reopenings, Josie, you managed to construct the New Old Night Vale Opera House last year. 

It was three years before that, when I realized it was possible. The angels, who had served for ten years in a secret advisory capacity for the Board of Culture, finally revealed themselves to me. I was changing light bulbs on my porch, and my back and balance were not what they once were, and I fell off my stepladder. These tall winged friends, all named Erika, lifted me before I hit the ground. A bright black glow illuminated the air around them and me. One of the angels gently twisted out the old bulb and replaced it. They handed the burned bulb to me and said, “We can change things.” I told them, “Yes, you are angels, I believe in you. You are angels and you can change things. We, we can change things.” And then the same angel said, “I just meant the light bulb. We can change light bulbs.” But I wanted to change the burned-out Opera House. I wanted to build a new one. And the angels called upon Night Vale’s richest citizens, billionaire Marcus Vanston, to join their ranks. And they bought the StrexCorp corporation, liquidated its assets, things like office computers, military grade helicopters and mind control collars. The angel who used to be Marcus managed the StrexCorp foundation and used those funds to build the new Opera House.

I always wondered what happened to Marcus.

Opera is vital to this city, more than you know. Alondra is a good daughter, moving back to her home town, a town she never liked much, to take care of her ailing mother. I’m getting around, I really am better, Cecil. But Alondra, she’s treating this hip thing like hospice or something, she’s asking me about my will, about where I keep my records. She’s going through my stuff asking what things I wanna keep and what we can get rid of. She’s always been a high strung and organized child.

 I’d like your bowling ball, if you’re getting rid of things.

 It’s yours, Cecil!

 Thanks, Josie. I won’t need it for aq long time, I’m sure of that. Let’s finish up our retrospective of Old Woman Josie in just a moment, listeners.

But first, let me get to the weather. 

[“Everywhere” by Ex Hex]

 We are back in the studio with Old Woman Josie. Are you and Allandra getting along OK? 

 Alondra is a good girl, but she never wanted to live in Night Vale. I haven’t seen her for almost 20 years and she’s doing fine wherever she’s living. Ak-lahama I think she called it. Apparently it’s an actual state, but I couldn’t find anything about it when I looked it up. I think it’s in Texas somewhere. Either way, I left Alondra mostly out of my will. I mean, family things like photo albums, ancestry records, and any of the hot milk I keep in my hot milk drawer, I left to her. I don’t want her to not have anything, I love her. But I left StrexCorp to the angels, to the Erikas, who helped establish the foundation, who managed the foundation, who have done nothing but support opera and all the arts here in Night Vale for decades.

 Well that makes perfect sense. Is she mad though, I mean that none of the money you have is going to her? 

 Not at all, she understands. Plus she’s built a comfortable life for herself. She doesn’t want or need money, but the city does not recognize the existence of angels, Cecil. Without me, they cannot legally run StrexCorp. So it will be left to my next of kin, which is Alondra. Alondra doesn’t want to manage an arts foundation. She doesn’t want to stay in Night Vale to underwrite new play openings or poetry shaming festivals or sculpture punching gardens. She plans to close down the foundation and donate the money back to the city.

That sounds.. great?

 Cecil. The Erikas built that foundation. They built that Opera House. Everything they have worked for will be liquidated and given to the very city which denies their existence. Cecil, I need your help. The angels need your help. The opera needs your help.

 Josie, I..

 Angels are real, Cecil. Say it. 

[long beat] Josie, you said it yourself. You’re feeling better, you’re up and about, Alondra’s just.. reacting to stress but she’ll get to go home soon, now that you’re healed.

 You’re right, Cecil. We’ll talk about this more next week at league night. We’re not done here.

OK, Josie.

Oh and before we go, thanks everyone who’s been bringing food by the house while I’ve been under the weather. Your old friend Earl came over. I remember you two used to be joined at the hip wearing your Boy Scout uniforms and neckkerchiefs and baseball clubs. 

 Huh. I don’t remember any of that.

 Earl brought me a delicious apple pie he baked himself. He used a butter crust and fresh-picked Macoun apples. He even added some cranberries, capers and metal shavings. What a clever chef! So thanks to Earl, and you Cecil, for looking out for me.

Thanks for sharing your life with Night Vale, Josie.

Stay tuned next for the sound of a balloon popping. Stay tuned. It will happen. Eventually. Aaany minute now. Stay tuned! 

And as always,

Good night, Night Vale. Good Night.  

Episode 98 - Flight


Those who remember history are also doomed to repeat it. 

Welcome to Night Vale.

Despite the best efforts of Hadassah McDaniels and her team of five-headed dragon lawyers, her brother, Hiram McDaniels, is scheduled to be executed today for his crimes against state and city. City government promises that by the end of this broadcast, Hiram McDaniels will be dead. Well. Night Vale’s executioner, Dale Salazar, has once again been raised from the graveyard. When asked for a comment, Dale coughed through disused vocal cords for a while before finding his soft voice, not used since the last public execution more than three decades ago. Secret executions are much more common. [hoarsely] “I hope to provide a quick and humane death,” he said. “If it has to happen, and I’m told it does, then I will have it happen with as much mercy as possible.” He then lowered his canvas executioner’s hood, painted with a screaming monster face, and began marking his chest with the ritual signs of the blood stone circle. 

Hadassah and her lawyer, Miriam, were fuming - literally breathing fumes of fire, in their anger about Mayor Cardinal’s complete refusal to budge on the issue of the execution of Hadassah’s brother. “Hiram is a citizen of our world, not yours,” Miriam said. “To inflict on him the justice of mere humanity is a crime against not just one dragon, but all dragons everywhere.” Hadassah added, “If you touch one head on my brother’s five necks, I will end you and your puny world.” Hiram himself has showed no worry about his forthcoming departure from our plane of existence. “Let’s just say I don’t plan to be around when they want to make it so I’m not around,” his Gold Head said, and then his Gold Head winked, and his Violet Head rolled his eyes about the wink. “Walls cannot hold us!” roared his Green Head. “Or they can, up to now, but they will not for much longer!” It seems despite the news of his escape plans being, um, accidentally broadcast on the radio recently, Hiram is confident they will continue without a hitch, due to his careful planning and the help of an unnamed accomplice. Who he would only say was “quite old” and “completely faceless”. 

Hiram has worked his way out of more difficult situations, and so my worry isn’t with him, but with Old Woman Josie. Her broken hip has led to an infection, and she has been mostly confined to her bed for the past couple weeks. She was not able to come to league night at all, and I’m worried about her ability to bowl ever again. Her friend Sarah Sultan took her place on our bowling team last week and was a surprisingly good bowler… but it’s not the same without Josie. She continues to be positive about it and says that it’s just one of those things, and she’ll be out and about in no time, but I don’t know. I just don’t know. 

Well. We’ll keep you updated about Hiram as the day moves on, but in the meantime, I will move on to the news. 

“Everything’s fine with the water,” came an unprompted announcement from  officials. The officials emphasized that despite what you may have heard, the water is safe to drink and even to let touch your skin in moderate quantities and for a limited period of time. The officials dipped their gloved hands into the water and brought the water up to their mouths. “Mmmmm!!” the officials said, clearly letting the water splash out of their hands without ever getting near their clamped shut mouths. “Look at us, drinking this delicious, clean water! Definitely it is safe and normal water and there is no need for testing, or even look at it too closely.” The officials then disposed of the gloves and retired from the press conference without asking questions, citing their need for an immediate chemical shower. Lieutenant Regis of Unit 7 of the Local National Guard Station and KFC Combo Store said he wasn’t surprised at all. Something like this had been due to happen, and it was only a matter of time. “Most everything’s a matter of time,” he said. “We exist in it, time. And space,” he added thoughtfully, then snorted and said, “But of course space is just the physical aspect of time, in the same way that meat is the physical aspect of sentience.” He laughed at his joke, although it was not clear to anyone else what the joke was, or even which part of what he had said had been the joke. The lieutenant was burying himself in the Sand Wastes, until he was covered to the hips, just a torso sticking out of the sand. “Thanks for reaching out again,” he said, “always nice to talk to old friends!” He smiled, made finger guns at a passing cloud, and began beautifully to sing. This has been the news. 

The countdown continues to the planned time of Hiram’s death. Dale Salazar has completed his blood stone rituals and is now doing some preparatory stretching and light aerobics. He explained, [hoarsely] “It’s important that your body be literally warmed up in order to prevent injury. We don’t want any injuries, except obviously the fatal ones I will be inflicting, but no cramps or torn muscles, you know.” Mayor Cardinal watched in solemn silence as everything was made ready for the death of her attempted murderers, four out of five of the heads of Hiram McDaniels. The only one not sentenced is the Violet Head. But in a statement, Violet shouted repeatedly from Hiram’s Prison Cell: “We are different heads, but a single being! We don’t know what will happen to me if the other heads die, this is murder! Murder!!” There was a follow-up statement from Hiram’s Green Head saying: “Stop mulling and help us with the wall!!” Then Gray issued a statement saying: “Well now you’ve told them about the wall, it’s all ruined.” And Gold issued a final statement saying: “He just meant folks, help us examine how impenetrable and secure this wall is. No one could ever escape from here, no matter how many extremely clever heads he has.” Later, Hiram was seen wandering the exercise yard, casually leaving a trail of dirt and pebbles behind him as he walked. Meanwhile, Hadassah and her fellow dragons have been moved to a designed Free Speech Cage, which is heavily reinforced and electrified for the protesters’ protection. They will remain in the Free Speech Cage until they stop breathing so much fire at people. 

And in news I cannot help but focus on.. Josie has been feeling, uh, lethargic all day. The Erikas, whom she insists I call angels despite how.. deeply illegal it is and how that could get me in a good deal of trouble, are all standing out in her yard, their heads bowed, moaning low and crying. Which isn’t a good sign, obviously. I-I-I-I’m worried about Hiram of course, and I’m also worried about Josie. I 

 worried about my friend. 

And now a station editorial. There has been much talk lately about the dangers of dreams. And yes, we concede, it seems like madness that our brains force us to experience apparent realities we have no control over, and that are often confusing and frightening. We could be spending that time in our own reality that we have no control over, and that is often confusing and frightening. While the recreational use of dreams is understandable in moderation, dream advocates don’t want to stop there. There are reports of dreams being given to young children or even babies. That said, we also cannot get behind the current push to band dreams altogether. You’ll have, of course, seen the flyers and posters pointing out alarming statistics, such as that three in five dreamers do not even own a properly registered dream journal, and that there is currently a loophole where anyone who sleeps can just have a dream, without going through any kind of background check. But dreaming is our right. It is a foolish right, one that was instituted by people living in a different time, and with little thought as to the ramifications through history of their incomplete grasp of the world, but a right nonetheless. If dreams are criminalized, then only criminals will have dreams. For this reason, dreams should not be banned. 

But we do believe there needs to be common sense restrictions on dreaming, such as banning the more powerful and dangerous forms of dreams, like night terrors and daydreaming. And requiring all citizens to report their dreams to specifically programmed satellites that will take those dreams and carry them whizzing around the Earth. Some day when all of us humans are gone, the satellites will continue to whirr in the cold vacuum above, carrying the dreams of the long dead. And in that way, with their tiny mechanical bodies, we will live on. This has been a station editorial.

And now it’s time for the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner. Please use the materials we sent you to follow along at home. The first thing you’re going to want to do is make an incision just above the main artery. You see the pulsing thing? Right, so put a finger on that, and then cut just above your finger. Great! Now there’s going to be some oozing, but isn’t there always some oozing, kids? Oozing is natural, it’s what separates us from the machines. Oh, speaking of machines, now is when you’re going to use those wires we sent. Insert them in the incision. Mm hmm. Oh, very good. If you’re having trouble getting them in there, just push really hard. OK, now ask your parents to help you with this next bit, as it could be a little dangerous. Once you have pushed the wires allll the way into your heart cavity, you’re just going to need to get any normal household car battery and attach the wires to that. Following the experiment, you might have some side effects like a general movement outwards, a sagging of the insides, or joust jaw. If you experience any of these, please do let us know, as that data is helpful to us. This has been your Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

We have reached it, listeners, the time scheduled for Hiram’s execution. The guards walk down the corridor to retrieve him. Dale Salazar hops up and down and makes a series of soft grunts. His municipal executioner’s rifle held high above his head. The Mayor still stands in determined silence. Hadassah hisses at the electrified bars of her cage. 

The door is opened and.. Hiram isn’t there. Instead, there is only a hole in the wall. Yes, listeners, it appears that Hiram has been digging a hole in his wall, hiding it behind the poster of a hole in the wall that has been hanging in his cell this entire time. The Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home was clearly able to smuggle him some simple tools, since the prison cell was technically his home and so, according to to the rules of her existence, she was already inside of it, secretly living there. He used these tools, like a jackhammer and scaffolding and several meters of tunnel lighting and a generator, to slip out of Night Vale’s grasp, just as his time had come. What a clever dragon! The guards rushed to the window to see him winging his way up into the searing blue sky, truly free for the first time in over a year, flexing muscles that have not seen use during his captivity. Green howls with joy. Blue and Gold, caught up in the moment, join him. All of us in Night Vale follow this escape with rapt attention. I-I-I think I can see him from my studio right now. Even Josie at home in her bed, weak but still awake, listens to Hiram’s escape and feels in his flight some sense of rising, some sense of the possibility of escape for us all. 

Hiram is a criminal, but in this moment, he is also a kinetic monument to joyous animal freedom and.. [music distorts, slows down ] Oh.. Oh, I.. Um..

[weak voice] We take you now to the weather. 

[“Icarus” by 

]

We all know what happened. We all… Night Vale, there has been a death. Let’s start there. Just start with the fact of it and… I’m still in shock, so… I’m sorry, uh, this won’t be up to the strict, neutral journalistic quality you’ve come to expect from me I’m just… I’m I-I’m just so shocked, I’m just…so…

There has been a death. One who was once living is not. It happened during Hiram’s escape, he rouse into the air and our hearts rouse with him, and I listened from my booth. In her bed, Josie listened too. 

“We are free!!” Green roared. “No cell can contain me!” “This is the least sad I’ve ever felt,” Gray said. “Physics is merely a mathematical expression of the joy of movement,” said Blue. “I was against this from the start!” said Violet. Then he conceded, “But I was wrong! Higher! Let’s fly higher!” and Violet laughed. Hadassah and Miriam roared in joy. Mayor Cardinal tightened her lips. “Let him run,” the Mayor said. “We will find him again.” 

But Dale Salazar wasn’t interested in that. He had been raised from the grave to do a job, and he did not let simple things like escape get in the way of that job. He began jogging underneath the flying dragon, saying “hop, hop,” as he ran. He could not keep up with the power of the dragon’s wings. “It’s OK,” shouted the Mayor. “He’s gone, Dale, it’s OK.” But Dale did not hear. Dale Salazar began to fire at the escaping dragon. “No you don’t!” he screamed. His mask had fallen off during his running, and his face was red, his eyes were wide, he fired at Hiram. “No you don’t!” he screamed again. “Your bullets are useless against me!” Green said, and they were useless against him. They missed Green completely. 

It was Violet who was hit, the bullet entering just beneath his jawline. It only took one shot. I don’t think Violet suffered at all. On the downstroke of a wing, Violet was alived and united with the four other heads that made up the whole of Hiram, and on the upstroke.. Violet was dead. And the other heads reeled at the loss of a part of themselves. There was a gap in their being that they had never experienced, should never have experienced. Hiram’s body faltered, suddenly clumsy, regaining only some semblance of flight. The rest of him continued on, the dead Violet swinging below. Mayor Cardinal shouted, “No!” but only after what was done, was done. The “no” was not a command but a regret. She opened her mouth. She closed her mouth. She didn’t know what to say. She said nothing about situational irony. She said nothing about unnecessary tragedy. She said nothing more about anything. Hadassah screamed in impotent rage and despair. She clawed over and over at the bars of the cage, powerful electric shocks ran through her, but she felt none of them. She clawed and clawed, howling with a voice even she did not recognize. 

At home, Old Woman Josie put her hands over her face. She felt a plunging inside. And it was this sorrow that gave her the energy to slowly get out of bed, to hobble out into the front yard and join the Erikas. She put her arms around them. They surrounded her in a deep, glowing blackness, and together they shared their surprise and their grief. 

Dale Salazar, job more or less done or at least someone killed, returned satisfied to his grave, buried again until the next public execution is needed. 

And I… sit here, in front of my microphone making.. useless sounds with my useless mouth. Discovering the weightlessness of stories before the heavy weight of the world. 

Stay tuned next for… I don’t know.

I don’t care.

Good night. 

[the sound of a mic dropping, a door closing]

 So there’s this commercial and it’s like there’s this baby and she’s not getting along with the dog, she’s like a little afraid of the dog and the dog is like a big a beautiful Golden Retriever and um, so like the Golden Retriever like feels sad coz he can’t be with his family because the baby doesn’t like him, but so the Dad sees that um, the baby likes the the um, stuffed animal that she has which is a lion, so the Dad goes and orders a lion mane for the dog and then he puts it, he puts it on the dog and the dog, um the dog walks in as the lion and the baby loves it and the dog is happy coz it can be a part of the family again, as a as a lion. Thank you. 

Episode 99 - Michigan


Here comes the sun. Here comes the sun. Here comes the sun. It does not stop. 

Welcome to Night Vale.

To start today’s show, I wanted to talk a bit about our indomitable radio intern, Kareem. He’s become such a talented reporter here at the station. Kareem told me this morning that he had written to his family back in his home state in Mitchigan.. Mi.. Mitchigan, to tell them about all the recent events he’s reported on. Like the five-headed dragons and the strangers led by that horrible beagle, and the reopening of the laser tag center at the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex. They must be really proud of you, Kareem, and all the great work you do. The fantastic stories you’ve gotten to cover here at your internship. Thank you for your good work.

And now, an update. 

Many of you have written in with your concerns over Old Woman Josie. Well, good news, listeners. After suffering a broken hip and a series of infections that kept her bedridden most of that time, she is feeling much better. She still needs a cane and occasionally a wheelchair to relieve bodily exhaustion, but she is out and about. I got to see her last Tuesday at the Desert Flower for bowling league night. She hasn’t been able to bowl in nearly a year, but she has not lost any of her skills. She came with her many friends named Erika who claim to be.. [whispers] angels! She bowled a perfect store, cane and all. Her delivery did seem a bit weaker than usual, and her friends often stood right behind her as she rolled the ball. The Erikas would hum, and close their many eyes, and lift their many arms slowly into the air, and Josie’s ball would straighten out, pick up speed, and demolish all ten pins. The opposing team complained she was cheating, receiving help from angels, but that team was promptly arrested for acknowledging the angels’ existence and had to forfeit. Josie, being a good sport, protested their arrest and said the Erikas were indeed angels, and that we should all be free to acknowledge them. No one wanted to arrest a debilitated old woman, so they left it alone.

I’m so glad my friend is feeling better. She looks quite a bit older than I remember, but I’m just glad she’s back at the bowling alley.

Oh? OK. Kareem is telling me I apparently didn’t tell his whole story earlier. I thought we were just talking about what a good job he did, but I guess there’s more. OK then. Kareem says after he wrote his family, he did not receive back a letter of pride and congratulations. He got a letter that said, “LIES!!!!” in all capital letters and several exclamation marks. It continued: “You are a liar. You are a liar and we don’t understand why you are doing this to us. Please do not write us again. You are an imposter.” It is then signed, “Aisha”. Kareem tells me that this is indeed his mother’s handwriting and that is her name. I told him that parents don’t always communicate their love exactly how we would like. Radio is not a lucrative business. Maybe she is just expressing motherly concerns about his career choice and well-being. 

He says she’s always been so loving and supportive, so my explanation makes no sense. Part of an internship is learning to receive feedback, Kareem. Well, thanks for the whole story.

And now an update on the dragons. After last month’s accidental murder of one of Hiram McDaniels’ five heads, Hadassah McDaniels, Hiram’s sister, her lawyer Miriam and several other dragons from whatever world they came from, have taken up hopefully temporary residence in Night Vale, claiming they will not leave until they get retribution, by which I’m hoping they just meant a heartfelt apology. 

No one has seen or heard from Hiram since the tragedy. Hadassah dug a cave beneath the Ralph’s, where all dragons are now living. Weekday shift manager Charlie Bear said the heat of the dragons’ cumulative breath, even underground, has ruined their produce section. Most of the greens have wilted. The whole store smells like onions now, he said. Bear added, “To be fair, the dragons have been coming up to shop for groceries, so I don’t want to complain about new business, but they don’t like our selection of meats and have been eating a few of our regular customers. And we can’t have that. Or I guess we can,” he said, “as long as they pay for whatever food they take, which they’ve been good about, so..” And then he rattled the loose change in both pockets and lit a cigarette with just his mind. 

And now.. ugh, oh god. OK, I thought I was just going to do a quick spotlight on a good intern to start the show, but Kareem is nudging me again, listeners. Apparently, I left some details out of his story. Not everything needs to be a 100 percent accurate account of your personal history, Kareem! This is a radio show, not Patrick Rothfus’s best-selling memoir, “The Name of the Wind”. Your demand for details makes me look bad!

Listeners, Kareem’s really focused on correcting every little fact, which makes him a good reporter.. but also kind of a snitch. So, to start. It seems I’ve been mispronouncing Kareem’s home state of Mitchigan. How do you say it, Kareem? Mitchigan? Right, that’s what I’m saying. Mitchigan. Mmmitcchigan. Mmisshtigan. Mishhigan. Mishhtigan. OK, I’m sorry Kareem, I just can’t hear the nuances of your regional accent. 

The point is, listeners, Kareem said that he had sent a second letter home to his family, asking if everything was OK, and if they were happy with his career and how he is living his life. He just wanted to make them proud. He received another letter back in his mother’s handwriting. The letter read: “My son Kareem is in my home. I am looking at him right now. He is tall. He has long black hair and green eyes. He is a beautiful and honest and hardworking boy. He has a birth mark on his right hand, shaped like a salamander. This is not you. You are not this person.” The letter continued: “Kareem is in college studying broadcast journalism. He is not you. I do not know you. Who are you? Why are you pretending to be my son? We cannot find any record of a town called Night Vale anywhere. Please stop writing me, whoever you are.” And then it is signed “Aisha”. Kareem, you are tall, with long black hair and green eyes. You have a birthmark on your right hand. It’s shaped more like a lizard though, so maybe you have the wrong house? Who knows. Just one of those things, I guess. Anyway, thanks for the story, Kareem! 

And now an update on our schools. The enormous Glow Cloud – all hail – which serves as president of the Night Vale School Board, called for an increase in education funding to support the influx of new students. After the annexation of neighboring town Desert Bluffs, as well as the new five-headed dragon kids that arrived with the five-headed dragon delegation, Night Vale schools desperately need more teachers and classrooms. Not to mention additional fireproofing. The Glow Cloud – all praise the mighty Cloud – delivered this message via press release scrawled in thick paint across several dead animals, which had dropped from its great translucent body above town. It took reporters several hours to place each of the animals in the correct order to make sense of the press release, but they think they got it. Mayor Dana Cardinal and Sheriff Sam sent out their own press releases, claiming a lack of available funding for the schools. The Mayor said she will look into it, but does not want to raise taxes. The Sheriff simply growled and fired a pistol into a target dummy shaped like a dragon. The City Council, minus newest member Tamika Flynn, shrieked and then left on a beach vacation, saying they needed an increase in sunlight and tropical drinks and that, so what if sometimes they don’t call? It doesn’t mean that they aren’t into a relationship, just that sometimes they’re busy. Here at the radio studio, our brokenhearted Station Management cried quietly in their office, which was a truly off-putting and strange sound. 

The Glow Cloud – we are not worthy to rub our faces in the mud before its beneficent presence, oh Maker and Unmaker of All Things – indicated that it would continue to bring up this issue at school board meetings. More on this story as it develops. 

Oh god, Kareem, really? Grrr. OK, Kareem is now telling me that he called his parents to talk to them about the letters they sent to him, but a familiar voice answered the phone. It was not his father Raheem, nor his brother Amir.. it was him. [music distorts] Kareem answered his own phone call. Kareem tried to explain who he was to himself, but the other Kareem said that it couldn’t be true, that there was only one him, and he was it. Kareem asked to speak with his mother, but Kareem said, “I don’t know your mother, I only know my mother” and hung up. Kareem said he wanted to go home to see his family. I told him he might be confused by it, but to take a close look at a map of the United States. He did, and was dismayed to find there was no Mintchigan. Mitchigan? Minchigan, I think that’s it, right? He said his home state should be right between Oheeo and Canada, and that it’s shaped like a mitten. I said he’s thinking of Maine which looks like a mitten that’s been wadded up, and you’re looking at it from like a side angle. He said the US map looks correct when he stares at the whole thing, but when he looks closely at where Mitchigan shold be,it’s not there. He’s now pacing in the cubicle area, pulling at his hair, sweating. I’m worried about him. He’s never quite behaved like this before. Um, I’m gonna tell him to go home, visit his family, take some time off work. While I do that,

Here is today’s weather.

[“Quiet Americans” by 

r]

Kareem is back already. Said he spent the last two weeks at home. I told him he’d been gone about five minutes, you know, long enough to report the weather. But he pointed to the calendar and, I’ll be darned, he’s right! It’s been two weeks! Huh. That weather report took wayy longer than I thought. Kareem said he took a flight to Grand Rapids, but when he landed, he was back in Night Vale. He tried several flights, even to some of the cities of Detroix and Chycago, neither of which I’ve ever heard of, hoping to just catch a bus or something from there, but all flights landed back at the Night Vale airport. Now Kareem’s a good intern, but not very knowledgeable of how air travel works. The whole point is the joy of flying, not the destination. No one likes going places. They just like the comfort of flying. Airlines send you in the air for a few hours and serve you good food while you relax. Then, they take you home.

The airport having failed him, Kareem got in his car and drove to Mintchigan. He kept getting lost and ending back up where he started, but after days of trying, he finally arrived. He found his family was there, joyfully surprised to see him. He told them about the letters he sent and the ones he received. He was crying. They said they hadn’t heard from him in ages and were starting to get worried. They didn’t receive or write any letters. He asked if he was already there. “Was I home this whole time?” he asked his mother. She just hugged him and said, “You’re here now.” He asked Amir: “Was I here? Did you see me here while I was gone?” Amir said: “You’ll always be here, Kareem.” He asked his father: “Are dragons real? Are there other worlds? Is Satan a beagle puppy?” His father laughed and said: “You were always the funny one!” They embraced. 

Kareem stayed for a few days. They had dinners together and watched movies. Kareem tried to talk about his time in Night Vale, but found he was not able to remember any of it. He eventually could not even remember the name of this town he’d been living in for two years, and after a while, he forgot that he had ever been anywhere else at all. He had forgotten Night Vale and his people in his mind, but not in his body. He could feel he was supposed to be somewhere else. He didn’t want to be anywhere else, but he didn’t feel like it was his decision. He fought this feeling for days. Finally, one day, his father asked if he wanted to go see a University of Mitchigan football game. Raheem said: “They’re a talented team this year. It’s been nearly 20 years since they won a title.” Kareem said he thought they won a championship two years ago with someone named Sandero at quarterback. His father said that wasn’t possible, the team was terrible two years ago. Kareem had some errands to run, so he told his family he would meet them at the game. He got in his car, fully intending to see them in less than an hour, but instead he drove and drove, not knowing to where. And after several days with no map or destination, he arrived back in Night Vale. And he remembered his life here again. He called his mother when he got home to tell her he was safe, but she only screamed into the phone saying: “No! No! You’re here! I’m looking right at you! Kareem, you’re here in my home you’re right here in my home. How are you calling me?”

I love our internship program. Kareem has become an excellent reporter and editor. Maybe one day he will replace me here at the station, who knows. But beyond professional development, I want our interns to learn the bigger lessons of life, and love, and family, and death. Kareem hasn’t thought much about aging, I’m sure, but as we get older, as we leave home, we form for ourselves an independent identity, no longer impressed upon by families. We take the last shape they crafted, a partially chiseled stone sculpture, and we are left to try to finish the work ourselves. Hopefully, they have provided good tools. Hopefully, the world teaches us how to better use them. And for the rest of our lives, we are gently hammering away at the curves and crevices of the great masterpieces that are our lives. Sometimes,as we work, we become less recognizable to the families who first shaped us. They critique the craftsmanship, the artistic direction, they worry too much has been cut away or that, quote, “those arms just don’t look proportional”. In some cases, they no longer recognize us for the adults we are. Family expectations are high. But underneath it all, there’s love, and worry, and a knowledge that you will do right for yourself. Your family may not trust that knowledge, but they know they have to try. Kareem is back at his desk, staring at a map of the US, but he doesn’t look fearful or worried anymore. He looks like a young man – a grown man, but still a young man with a purpose. He is a journalist, doing a journalist’s job: to seek truths, to understand the world. I’m proud of him.

Proud of you, Kareem! [chuckles] He’s giving a thumbs up. OK, let’s talk about your editing though, that weather report was like wayyy too long, like five minutes max, OK?

Stay tuned next for the slow, low sounds of enormous plates shifting deep below us. Listeners, I’ll be taking off work in a couple weeks to.. well, just to take some time off. But we’ll be in touch again in the new year. 

As always,

Good night, Night Vale, good night. 

 A 4-star hotel will put a mint on your pillow, while a 5-star hotel will put candy bars in your butt. 

Ghost Stories




Ghost Stories


You can purchase Ghost Stories 

.

Transcript of the bonus tracks 

.

 And now, listeners of every kind: the voice of Night Vale, Cecil Baldwin! 

[applause]

 We have nothing to fear but fear itself. Also many other things, several of which can be found in your home. Welcome to Night Vale! 

Listeners, honest honored listeners, Cecil here as always your voice to carry you through the lonely hours. Today is a very special day indeed. Today, as we all know, is the annual Night Vale ghost story contest. In which every citizen is required to put forward their scariest, spookiest tale of spectors and haunts. The City Council chooses their favorite, and the winner is, through a process that is truly terrifying in its simplicity, turned into a ghost. The losers are forced to continue in forms that primarily depend upon the containment and transportation of oozes and glob. 

Now I’m sure that you’ve all been preparing your own entry for the ghost story contest, since all of you will soon have to stand up and deliver it to the gathered people. But before all of you each individually have your turn, I thought that I might indulge myself for a moment and tell you my own entry to your ghost story contest. Are you all OK with that? [applause] I have no idea what you just said so, gonna nod and give myself a thumbs up and I think we’re all good here.

But first, let’s have a look at today’s horoscopes. Leo? [silence] Leo? [audience whoops] Leo! Bet all your money on red! All those material possessions were only weighing you down. Soon you will be in many ways – free-er than the rest of us. 

Virgo? You know that one spot on your back that itches and itches and itches and you just can’t stand it? Well, good thing: you won’t have to deal with that or anything else after tomorrow night. 

Libra? Draw your loved ones closer to you. That first drawing you did was no good, no, draw them like closer to you. There’s too much white space on the page! How are your loved ones supposed to love you if you can’t even draw them right? 

Scorpio? OK so, I think we all know by now that this is the sign of.. uuughhh.. Steve Carlsberg. Who is my sister Abby’s husband. Now, usually the horoscope just happens to turn out something quite mean for Scorpio. Purely through the unknowable combination of fate and random chance that is the meeting of the stars. But Abby said that the stars had better knock that off! Especially if they want to be invited to their niece Janice’s first ballet fight. So, let’s see how this goes. Scorpio. Things are looking bright. What a great day you have before you! Look how clear the sky, how green the grass how – dumb and oversized your feet look. [gleefully] No really, I hope you don’t trip or rip your pants not even once! How terrible it would be if that happened! But it probably won’t through, so there you go. [mutters] Scorpios…

Sagittarius?  Ahahahahahahaha, aahahahahahahaha, aaahahahahahaha! 

Capricon? Things fall apart, the center cannot hold, mere anarchy is loosed upon the world. The blood (–) [02:42] tide is loosed upon the world and everywhere! So your home carpentry project will not go well next week. There’s just too much blood.

Aquarius? OK, you are just two dogs in a trench coat, Aquarius. I mean I hate to break it to you, but you have no opposable thumbs, or language skills. And you’ve always been two dogs in a trench coat! [cooing] Yes you are, yes you arrre!! [kissing noises] Now go outside! Good dogs! 

Pisces?  If you don’t have anything nice to say, try saying something mean. I mean there are lots of options for things to say. 

Aries? Ooh. OK, so this horoscope is just a picture of a bear. And next to the bear is the lizard and next to the lizard is the pelican. And there’s a combined speech bubble above them all that says “We regret the storm that took your lives.” And they’re smiling and (-) [0:03:57] some mugs of beer together. And they have their feet up on skulls. And if you look really closely you’ll notice that they’re not standing on a pile of sticks, but on a pile of human bones?! And unfortunately I believe that in this cartoon, Aries – you’re the pelican! 

Taurus? No sunshine for you, Taurus! Nope! The sun’s light has been blocked, but only for you. Oh yes, everyone else will walk in sunny rays, sunshades and shorts, wide smiles and hat brims, SPF 50 and a Frisbee at the beach. You will likely lose feeling in your skin due to the cold of a [sinister voice] sunless world! [friendly voice] Good luck! 

Gemini? They say an onion has many layers. Gemini, you are like that onion. Time has peeled away, one after another, each of your hard, pungent layers: snap, snap, snap! They (pry) off and urgent fingernails pry away the remnants as you grow smaller, wetter, less complex. Ooh, also like an onion, your odor makes as cry. 

Cancer? Well this just says “chainsaw accident”. So I bet that’s a metaphor for something really goood!

 And now a word from our sponsors. For that, we have a sentient patch of haze here in the studio with me, and her name is Deb! Deb? 

 Thank you Cecil. Today I am here on behalf American Airlines – your partner in the sky. 

 Fantastic. What does American have to say to us today? 

 American Airlines is committed to.. [giggling] your safety! And comfort.. [giggling] and getting you into the air. It is our promise that we will get you up there. You will rise from the ground. For sure, that will happen. And you will soar above the clouds.

 Well that’s wonderful to hear, you know it’s reassuring to know that American Airlines will see us safely and comfortably through takeoff, flight, and landing!

 [long beat] No Cecil. We didn’t say that. We don’t wanna promise we can’t say for sure we can deliver on. We will get you up there. 

 And then what then? 

 Oh, what anywhen? Do we see the future? 

 Oh? 

 No. 

 No.

Life is chaotic, and it would be irresponsible to start making promises. 

 Yes, but mostly you land those planes, rights? 

 I haven’t checked lately. But if it helps you to say that out loud, then certainly you should do that, yeah, mm hm. 

 Why do I always end up so worried after talking to you, Deb?

 American Airlines. What goes up, must come down. We guarantee it.

 Alright, well thank you Deb.

 So you’re all telling ghost stories, huh? 

 Oh yes, yes we are.

Good. I have a wonderful story of a haunting to tell. It’s very popular among us, sentient patches of haze. 

 Oh please, tell it.

 Once upon a time, a nice family of sentient patches of haze moved into an ooold house. They were young and optimistic and ready to start a home, but soon they realized something was teeeerribly wrong. They heard noises in the night. Voices, folky yet slickly produced singer-songwriter music. At first they assumed it was just their imagination, but soon they saw shapes in the halls and bedrooms. They noticed movement in the corner of the parts of their haze that they used to see with. One day, one of the sentient patches turned the corner and there – [disgusted] was a human standing there! As clear as a day, as opaque as flesh. Well, that poor little patch screamed and floated away. But now they knew, [creepily] there were humans haunting their house.

 Now wait. Humans often live in houses, I mean did the humans own the house? 

 Oh Cecil, there you go again. Serving as a propaganda mouthpiece for the capitalist machine that says sentient patches of haze aren’t allowed to move into and take over any house that a human “owns”! 

 Wait, a mouthpiece for the capitalist machine? Deb, your job is literally to be a spokeshaze for multinational corporations!

 Hmph! Hmph! Hmph! How dare you! My contradictions are my own to grapple with. I’m leaving. Thank you for giving me time on the air, I appreciate it.

 Well it was an ad, and I’m assuming you get paid for those?

 Sure if that assumption is helpful to you, goodbye Cecil.

 Alright, thank you Deb! 

And now, listeners, a ghost story. MY ghost story. 

It begins ten years ago, on a night just like – tonight. Heavy fog covered the town of Night Vale, turning the world into a blurry approximation, familiar landmarks into educated guesses. No stars, and the full moon diffused by the mist into a soft, feeble light from all around. 

A man was driving down a dark road, there were no other cars around. And on the side of the road, up ahead, he saw a figure. A figure made strange by the half-hearted moon, a brief pause in a long fog. Now the figure had its hand up. It did not (thumb) (-), but instead gave a languid wave, more of a summons than a request. And the man shivered, for he knew that it was on this very stretch of road one year to the day before that day that was ten years ago on a night just like tonight. The oooold mill, finally burned down. And when it went, there was a woman inside of it. Now, it’s hard to fathom why she was there in that abandoned disused mill, but she was. And the unthinkable happened, without anyone having to think of it at all. And since then, it has been said that in the darkest hours of the darkest nights, a young woman flags down cars on the side of the road where the old mill used to be. And if they’re foolish enough to let her into the car, she stares directly at the driver. And if the driver is foolish enough to look her in the eyes even once – she takes them to her home. A dark, eternal place from which no one, ever, returns.

Still, he couldn’t leave behind what could be a person in need of aid just because of some spooky old story. So he pulled over, and the figure reached out her hand and opened the passenger door and – there was a cold breath, air from dead lungs that the mist curled into the car, and the figure sat. 

And the driver was careful to look not too closely or for too long. 

“Um, uh, where are you headed?” the man said, but the figure was silent. So he began to drive once again. And the fog billowed as he drove, and he could swear that he could see that old mill as it had once stood, leaning and ramshackle. Now, that mill had not been in working order in decades, it was probably just its time to go when it burned, but still. He mourned the loss of what had been a part of his own. 

“Where to?” he said again without turning or looking at his passenger. And the figure spoke. The figure spoke with a voice that sounded like a body hitting freezing water, like the distant thud in an old house in the smallest hours of the night. 

[creepy voice] “You know wheeeree,” the figure said. “You know where I want to goooo.” And he did know. 

“I want to go – hoooooome.”

And he held the wheel tighter, and he pressed the gas harder, and he stared unblinkingly at the door because he knew that the figure’s face was only inches away now, and staring directly at him.

Oh, listen to me yammer on! Haha. You know, I should really get to some of the other business of community radio, or Station Management will [chuckling] just kill me. [long beat] At least I hope that’s all they’ll do to me. 

The rest of this ghost story soon. 

But now I have a really special guest in the studio today, who has their own ghost story to tell. She is one of our community’s most active young people, having formed a militia to keep our town safe from corporations and librarians, oh – and she is also an avid reader. So please welcome to the show – Tamika Flynn! Hi Tamika! 

Hi Cecil. [chuckles]

 You said you have a ghost story that you wanna share? 

 Yes. I love books so much, and one of my favorite kinds of books is the ghost book.

The ghost book? You mean horror novel, yes? 

 You say potato, I say pohtata. 

You do? 

 Yeah! 

 Pohtata? 

 Pohtata chips, pohtata salad. Pohtata poutine.. [chuckles]

But that’s kind of a weird way to say potato.

 Well I learned English from reading it Cecil, not from listening to it! [chuckles, snorts repeatedly] Anyways. I love ghost stories because they’re so rich with symbolism and meaning. A lot of people think that ghost stories are just a one-note tale about a ghost haunting an old house, but if you look deeper under the surface, ghost stories are really about dead people who are now invisible or translucent beings who interact with the living in antiques homes, so..

Very important difference.

Would you like to hear my favorite ghost story, Cecil?

 Oh yes, please!

Many years ago, in this very town.. [whispers] there was a librarian! Ooh! And the librarian would creep around the public library, hunting and slaughtering book lovers for sport! Innocent people would go to the library hoping to find a good book, something new and interesting. Maybe a classic of modern science fiction by Octavia Butler, or some surrealist literature by Amy Bender or, oh, maybe some pedantic buzzkill space essays by Neil deGrasse Tyson. [chuckles]

 Now, wait a minute! To be fair to Neil deGrasse Tyson, his Victorian era romances are really goo-oo-ood! 

 [long beat] Anyways. One day, there was a young girl, a really smart girl. [chuckles] She was also really fit, like REALLY fit! [chuckles] But also smart like the smartest girl you can know. Ahem. And also really tough. Anyways, she went to the library to get a book, and just as she was perusing a collection of plays by the 17th century poet and spy Aphra Behn, she could smell something terrible, like an infection, like wet fur. It was humid suddenly, and she felt something watching her, slithering about just over her shoulder. 

But this girl, she was fast too. She jumped to the side quickly just as a spiked tentacle came crashing down next to her, crushing the shelf containing play scripts by Pulitzer winner Annie Baker. Without thinking, the girl – she was also intuitive, like [whispers] soo intuitive! [chuckles] – she grabbed the tentacle before it could retract into the librarian’s protective shell. She then grabbed a copy of the “Complete Works of William Shakespeare” by Francis Bacon. It was the special edition that had the machete taped right there on the book jacket! [chuckles] She tore off the large knife and swung, striking the tentacle at its base. She swung again, landing an accurate blow between the soft small crevice and the hard skin. This girl was amaaaaziiiiing! The librarian shrieked, then with a double back flip – which was pretty easy for this girl… she narrowly avoided the splattering acid blood of the flailing creature and dealt a mortal blow right to its disgusting neck! She didn’t even need a blade to finish off the monster, she just used her fist! Splat! Pffffff! [breathes heavily] True story of the badass book loving girl there ever was! [chuckles] 

 So this is a story about you, right? And how you defeated the librarian during the Summer Reading Program a few years back?

 Oh no. That story was about my best friend Jessica Littleton. She’s so smart and talented, [high-pitched] I just love her, she’s the best! 

OK Tamika, while I hate to nitpick, that was a really great story but that was like, [hoarsely] monster story, not like a ghoooo-oooost story. 

Well. Jessica jacked up that monster and now it’s a ghost, boom, ghost story! Well I gotta go do my math homework, and then we have the teen militia meeting this evening at the new skating rink, so bye Cecil! [chuckles]

 Bye, thank you Tamika!

It’s time for another edition of the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner! 

Did you know that time travel exists? OK well not yet, but we have learned from time travelers that it will be invented in just under 30 years. Now given that knowledge, I thought it’d be kind of fun to do a little experiment together, so. If you are legally allowed to own a smartphone, take that out now and open up that calendar application. No go ahead, don’t be shy! 

Now what I want you to do is create a recurring event that starts on this exact day and time, and title that event, well, “travel back in time”. Ooh, and be sure to note your exact location, OK? Now, when you’ve done that, set that event to recur every year on this anniversary. That way, when your future self does eventually have access to a time machine, they’ll know to come back to this. very. Moment. And then once you’ve done all of that, hit “save” and your future self should appear immediately right in front of you! 

OK, so do you see your future self? Alright, well you may have to look around just like a little tiny bit. Hold on, hold on. Do none of you see your future selves? Uh oooh… 

[long silence]

Well, this has been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner!

 Now, a look at the Community Calendar. So let’s start off with an event that is happening today. To get in on the annual ghost story contest, Teddy Williams, owner of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex, announced that he will be offering 20 per cent off admission and double game tokens for anyone who dresses up like a deceased ancestor, historical figure, or departed pet. 

We have Teddy in the studio with us now to talk about some of the themed activity going on at the fun complex. Teddy?

 Hello, Cecil.

 Hello.

 We are really getting into this ghost stories festival over at the Desert Flower today and we wanted to celebrate the

 of the event [chuckles], no pun intended. 

 No pun understood. 

OK well we’re getting into the ghost story.. mood. Over in the bowling lanes, we’ll be turning off all of the lights, and as customers try to navigate and stumble around in the dark, our staff will sneak up behind them and shout classic ghost things like “BOOO!” and [hoarsely] “Hello again son, I miss you, it’s so cold here”.

Well that sounds like great fun that people will remember not unpleasantly for the rest of their lives. 

 We hired some pretty expensive lawyers to make sure of that. 

 Now Teddy, you seem to really love this day. Do you have a ghost story you wanna share? 

 Well, OK sure. As you know we built the new skating rink on top of the old pet cemetery. And there’s this gost cat, a Persian cat. Super cute like you just wanna grab his little flat face and go [high-pitched squeaking] with your own face against his..

 Awww.

..but you can’t. Because he’s a ghost and so your face just goes through, it’s just.. it’s like rrow, rrow. Anyway, turns out this cat belonged to former town billionaire Marcus Vanston. Marcus of course disappeared one day and no one knows for certain what happened to him..

 Oh, I-

 Or we do know, but none of us are legally allowed to say.

Of course, because we can’t legally acknowledge the existence of..

None of us are legally allowed to say Cecil, it could have been anything. 

Yeah of course. [whispers] Angel.

So this ghost cat belonged to Marcus, and Marcus was so rich that he had taught the cat French.

 Ooh.

 Yeah. Now I myself don’t speak French, but I do have a Russian dictionary, and I feel like both languages are so dissimilar form English that they must be similar to each other.

 That’s an excellent point. 

Right? Anyway, the cat told me that his name is Peanut, and that he died of sorrow when his master, whom he loved so much, passed from this earth and left him alone in their vast palazzo. That as a cat, he cannot cry, so he simply shivered with sadness by himself under the basement stairs every night, until his body wasted away into such a thin whisp that the wings of death could easily and sweetly carry him off to be with his owner once again. But he has yet to reunite with Marcus and so now he has only lonely immortality and no conceivable escape. 

 That’s heartbreaking!

 Yeah. So then I told him, [excitedly] “My name is Teddy, and I love video games!” 

 Oh.

 [laughing] I tried to feed him one of those little fish treats. It just fell right through his… He’s forever hungry and he can never eat! Ooo, anyway. So I’ve been trying to learn Russian better so that we can speak in French.

 Sure, yeah.

And he’s been coming around more often saying something that, okay sounds a little bit like “Je suis triste”, “Je suis mort”. Which I figured out means, “Hey Teddy, it’s great to see you!”

 Umm, now it’s been a moment since my French brainwashing in high school, but I’m pretty sure that “Je suis mort” means..

“Great to see you” yeah, I know Cecil. Alright well, I gotta get back to the complex and I hope to see everyone out there. Now don’t forget that it’s happy hour from four to six at our bar. If you can be happy for those two straight hours, you get three-dollar draft beers and well drinks. So far, no one has been able to do it. Well, je suis mort, Cecil! Ha ha!

  Aha, thank you Teddy! [whimpering] Oh, Peanut! 

More on the Community Calendar.

So listeners, I love ghost stories because they are so disturbing, but. Within the safety of a fictional narrative. Unlike my brother-in-law Steve, who just showed up uninvited to my studio and is disturbing in real life.

Well, now Cecil, you asked me to come up to the station to tell my ghost story!

What, I did? Wait, why would I do that? Is that the kind of thing that – oh yeah I do remember (–) doing that. Well, go on with your story, Steve.

Okey-dokey. [clears throat] Down by the old railroad tracks, on the eastern edge of town, it is said that if you go there just after dusk, you can see the ghoooooooost childrenn! 

 Alright, well, we should go now, you know. Lead the way, Steve, and all of us will be right behind you, eventually.

OK. Many decades ago, a school bus full of children stalled on those train tracks. The driver – whose name was Mab – tried to stop the engine, but it just kept grinding and grinding. There was noo moon! See, this was before the moon was invented by NASA scientists. Remember I told you? 

[mumbles]

Alright. Mab probably didn’t know she’d stalled on the tracks, she just kept trying to restart the engine, to nooo avail. Suddenly there was a loud horn and a deep, rhythmic rumble from below them, as the tracks trembled! 

Then, in the darkness, came a light. A single yellow glow, small and distant. The light was growing, as the sound of the horn and the rumble of the tracks crescendoed. The children spotted it first. [funny voices] “It’s the sun!” one of them called. “No, it’s a lightning bear!” called another. 

Mab kept trying to start the bus, the horn of the train boomed, the tracks below the bus barked and rattled, and the light was so big, moving so fast, and the kids screamed “Traaaaaiiiin! It’s a traaaaa-a-a-a-aiin!” And then they all cheered because they love trains, hahaha! And then they all watched the train pass, clapping and laughing the whole time because hey, they got to see a train! [chuckles]

: So wait, the train didn’t even hit the bus? 

 No no no no, see, turns out the vibration of the tracks had made the bus roll over them. A near miss, whew! Well, Mab called the Bus Barn and AAA and everyone got home safe and sound. But. It is said that out at the old train tracks, just after the dusk, on a night where there is no moon, if you put some powder on the trunk of your car and stop on the train tracks, your car will begin to move slowly off the tracks, without you touching the gas pedal. And then, if you check the outside of your car, you will see a series of small handprints on the powder! The ghosts of those children who were on that stalled bus so many years ago will push your vehicle to safety!

 But those kids didn’t die, I don’t understand how they, like how are they ghosts? 

 It happened 70 years ago, Cecil, I’m pretty sure most of those kids are ghosts by now.

I mean, are you leaving the car in drive, because then it’ll just move on its own without you having to press the gas. Oh and plus, those handprints are probably just your own handprints that form as the powder absorbs the oils that were already there.

Sounds like you’re too chicken to go out on the old train tracks..

Ugh.

 ..and see the ghost hands of ghost children who all died after bearing on that stalled bus!

Yeah, from natural causes, yeears later!

Which is all after they were on the stalled bus! Who-o-o-ooo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo, spookyy, spookyy! Do you need a hug? 

 No. [beat] OK Steve. [sighs]

 Look, it’s very scary, OK? It’s not just the handprints, but if you get there too long after dusk, the sky will be mostly void. You’ll stare into that infinite maw, sizing yourself down and down, until you understand that you are a fleck, a speck, a nothing nobody loser, who will be gone and not missed. Even the stars, for all their mass and might, are replaceable dots, soundless and similar. Even a ball of nuclear explosions, 2000 times the size of our own Earth, and which will burn mighty for millions and billions of years, is an indistinguishable blip that most can’t even name. What is the use of any of this? 

OK, now I’m actually scared.

[breathes heavily] So yeah, make sure you show up at the exact right time [chuckling] to see those handprints, OK? 

 OK. You’re done talking now? 

 Yeah.

: OK, great. So listeners, we now continue with our Com- OK Steve, you gotta, you gotta go. 

 Yeah, one hug. 

 No oh geez, alright, fine. 

 Oh there it is! Ah, we did it! Ah, I’m so scared, it’s so spooky! [chuckles] You’ll need another hug later on, (big guy).

Alright. [sarcastically] Thank you Steve. 

Where was I? Friday morning, the wooooop will be whoooooaaa and then later, ah ah a-a-a haha, if you catch my meaning, hahaha! [beat] Oh yes, that was probably very confusing for the radio, so. Friday morning there will be nuclear arms testing just along the canyon east of Route 800. Please remember to take shelter inside your car or under a very sturdy table. As lovable cartoon character, Andy the Atom, always screams: “A nuclear bomb is probably more afraid of you than you are of it!”

Saturday night is Night Vale high school’s annual prom. Afterwards there will be a casino-themed lock-in party. Now this is to encourage kids to stay in one place together, having fun with friends, and not being out on the streets drinking and driving. It is also to encourage kids to gamble. Some of the fun casino games featured will be lottery scratch-off tickets, Three Card Monte, and trust falls.

Monday is the day that Nostradamus told us would happen. [long beat] You know, Jeremy Nostradamus told us that this particular Monday would happen and listeners, Monday is indeed happeniiiiing-ah. 

Tuesday evening at 7 PM, the Night Vale school board will be holding a hearing to discuss whether or not testing helps measure children’s abilities, or whether it’s already pretty obvious that the electrified maze is just like totally unbeatable. This hearing is open to the public. 

This Wednesday will be re-experiencing last Wednesday. I mean, last Wednesday was just so much fun, we are gonna repeat it over, and over, and over, and over, and over, and over… [mumbles] and over. 

Back to a ghost story, already in progress. 

[dramatically] It was ten years ago, on a night just like tonight. Here was a man driving down a dark road. No other cars. Where are all the other cars? Where are all the living people in the dead of night, I don’t know. 

And this, the anniversary of the burning of the oooooold mill, in which a young woman had died horribly, by fire. And here beside him, a passenger with a strange voice asking him as the woman would ask all doomed innocents that stopped for her to take… her… home.

“Oh you [clears throat], you want to go home?” the man said. “Yeah sure, sure. Umm, where is home?”

[growling] “I will give you directionsss,” the stiff dead throat of the figure rasped, and a hand touched his shoulder. He could just see it. Flesh and bone? Maybe. Meat and (symmetry), perhaps. But that does not make a thing human. And he knew from the stories that those who followed the directions of the woman from the mill would find themselves taking narrow, shaded lines, winding downwards  and downwards, to a destination and hollow as the pupil of a dead eye. 

“Oh sure, well I’m heading into town myself,” the man said, grasping for any kind of human conversation. “Well maybe I can drop you off somewhere – close to home, like the Moonlite All-Nite Diner or Mission Grove Park?”

[growling] “No! Take. Me. Home!” 

And before he could stop himself, the man turned and met her eyes, and the man saw, the man saw her face crearly. 

Stop. Stop right now. I want you all right now to close your eyes. Close your eyes and imagine – trench warfare. Imagine bodies writhing out of holes in the ground to die in muddy no man’s land. Imagine a plane in a thunderstorm where the whole of the universe becomes nothing but lightning and quake.

Imagine closing yourself into your bedroom at night and seeing the shadow imprints of your eyelids after you’ve closed the door. A hunched figure at the end of the hall, flopping around on the floor, in a sheet and muling.

Imagine pulling into your driveway in the dead of night and seeing, you think – but did you? – a grey face with a crude smile peeking from your bedroom window. 

Imagine being home alone in the middle of a vast nowhere. [click] And the power goes out. And it’s a long, long night until sunrise. Be quiet for just a few moments, and imagine all of this. 

Now imagine the face of the woman in the car. Yes. Yes. That is it. Exactly that.

[growling] “Tuuuuurn heeeere,” she said, incdicating a dark narrow side road, its pavement cracked and buckling, a side road he had never seen before. 

[increasingly scary voice] “Tuuuuuurn heeeere, take meee hoooooooooommmmme”. 

And without knowing why he did it, or where the path would lead, he turned down that side road and left the main road behind. 

The finale of my story coming up. But first, a public service announcement.

After a few recent wildfires, the Night Vale Fire Department would like to remind our listeners about fire safety. They began a new campaign to help parents talk to their kids about this important civic issue. The campaign is called “Your Treachery Has Been Noted”. And the mascot is this adorable cartoon vulture with a camera for a face.

Fire chief Ramona Incarna(-) that it’s important for parents to teach their kids about the three R:s of fire prevention: relent, renounce, repent! She said that  most common house fires and wildfires are started by your kids. And here she pointed straight at you! And then she said, “Those children came from your body!” 

And then she retched. Sorry. 

As part of the campaign, the Fire Department issued a pamphlet to help parents with the education business. Now this pamphlet is adorned with colorful drawings of pyramids and floating eyes, you know, to make it more relatable to teens. And these pamphlets will be distributed to all Night Vale Public School students via repeating audio loops while they sleep. 

So, because the ghost stories competition is such an important event in our town, Night Vale’s Mayor has sent her Director of Emergency Press Conferences, Pamela Winchell, here to deliver an emergency press conference. So please welcome Pamela Winchell!

 Hello, Cecil! Hello, people of Night Vale! Hello, people or whatever of space, who are receiving this long-ago podcast millions of light years away, millions of years in the future. Hello, mutant hollow-eyed child in the dark corner of the radio studio!

 Oh my god! What.. But..

 He’s cute right? 

 I ha- I have never noticed him before. [long beat] [whispers] Pamela!

 [whispers] Yes? 

[whispers] He’s staring right at me! 

[whispers] That’s what he does! 

 [whispers] He’s horrifying! Is he a ghost? 

 [normal voice] You can tell by his grey complexion and glowing yellow eyes and complete lack of facial expression, he is not a ghost. That, my friend, is one of the undead hollow-eyed messanger children from City Council.

 How long has he been here? 

 Probably since the last time City Council issued a press release.

But that was like a month ago!

Well you answered your own question there, didn’t ya? Cecil, you are supposed to send the undead messenger children home when you’re done with them. If you don’t, they’ll just hang around in the dark watching you all slack-faced. I mean, kids are innocent but they aren’t very smart!

 So he won’t like hurt me, right? 

 [singsong] I never said that!

[laughing hysterically] Aahahaa, hahaha, he-hey there little guy! What’s your name? 

[music]

 Oh, that was my grandfather’s middle name! [chuckles]

How do you even spell that? 

 Oh, B-U-M-P-F-B-U-M-B-F-F-F-G-G-G-W-silent Q. It’s Welsh. Also, my grandfather was a bird. He is no longer with us.

 Oh, I’m so sorry for you loss.

What? Why?

 I mean your grandfather passing away and..

 It was just a bird. Calm down, Cecil. Anyway, the Mayor sent me to do an emergency press conference about ghosts. 

 Excellent, go right ahead.

Quiet over there, kid, I’m talking. 

People of Night Vale. There is a certain rock in the desert. The rock is cone-shaped, perfectly smooth and inverted, balancing precariously on its point. If you stand in the long shadow of the rock, you can see the entire universe in the midday sky. Stars you have never seen before, every. single. star. Constellation spinning out great and terrible forgings. You will understand that history is a myth, and humanity a fever dream, and you will also hear a very dull hum. Really dull. I got bored like 30 seconds into it. [sighs] 

But the rock is really cool, OK? It is stone, white and carved into it is the entire text of Gillian Flynn’s best-selling thriller “Gone Girl”. The words are printed upside down and in Latin. Now, no one in Night Vale knows Latin, the only books on it are in the library and there’s no way any of us is going there. So I’m just assuming that it is “Gone Girl” because while I never have read the book, I’ve definitely seen the movie and it’s awesome. I’m not sure why they called movie “Furious 7” instead of “Gone Girl”, but it was really really good! So I’m just gonna say that’s a Latin translation of “Gone Girl” on the rock and not some ancient curse of rare religious relic.

 OK, is there a ghost anywhere in this story? 

 I don’t have to say that there is a ghost in a story for there to be a ghost in a story, Cecil. Like 16 billion people have died since the lizard people first invented humans. Ghosts are everywhere, all the time! I mean, I mentioned a desert, do you need me to say that there is sand there too, or cacti, or shirtless 20-year-olds burning a giant effigy and buying 8-dollar bottles of water from corporate sponsors? Of course those things are there, it’s a desert! [sighs]

So I’ve never seen this rock, but I’m actually really interested because I loved that movie too. I actually like the book just a little bit better. I’m actually not sure why they called the book “Ms. Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children by Ransom Riggs”, but it was still really good. So where can I go to get a look at this fascinating rock? 

 I ate it.

What- you what?! 

 I. Ate. It. It wasn’t good, I mean I liked the movie way better than I liked the stone, the stone is terrible, ugh. I haven’t been able to use the restroom in weeks.

 Ugh.

 Really turned me off ever reading Gillian Flynn. Anyway kid, you wanna go back to City Hall? Alright, cool. I’ll give you a ride, just hop on this horse with me and let’s go.

 Oh wow, I just now noticed that you were sitting atop a horse.

 Sure am. See you, Cecil! YAAAAOW!

 Oh, oh.. 

Cecil: The finale of my ghost story. 

It was ten yeears agoo, on a night just like tonight. The man and his passenger drove through a road that cut through the low branches of the forest. You know, the (dry) of the desert, trees take strange forms. They writhe and loom, their shape a history of their tortured growth.

“Keep going,” the figure rasped.

“Yeah I know the way,” the man said, and he did. Because the road, like this story, leads to only one place. A dark and secret place, from which no one ever returns.

“Do you know why I was in that mill when it burned?”

He did not.

“It was because I loved that mill, and I couldn’t let it go alone. Where were you, Cecil? Where were you when that mill burned down?”

“I dunno, I was, I was at work,” the man said. “I I I didn’t know it would burn down that day. I mean, I guess a part of me thought that nothing burns down and everything is forever.”

“Old mills burn, Cecil. That’s what they do.”

“I know I’m just I’m I’m trying to say I’m sorry that I wasn’t there.”

“It’s OK. You’re here noow!”

And the car reached the end of its road, the asphalt giving way to thick bramble. And the bramble rose and fell, like it was the hair on the back of a huge breathing (animal) and above them, the mill burned. It took up the whole sky. The whole night sky seemed like it was on fire, and the man, hardly able to breathe through this terror, turned and he met the face of the woman and she turned back to him and he saw, he saw the face of the woman clearly, and her face was gone. And in its place was the face that the fire had given her. And her lips opened into what would have been laughter, and she reached for him with what would have been her hand!

[quiet speech] Listeners… I’ve been lying to you. Or not lying, I’m sorry, but what’s the word for when you tell someone a fiction that you would like them believe about you, whatever that is but listen I can’t go on doing that, I need to tell you the truth. And I will. Coming up. The real story, the… the true ghost story that I have been trying to tell you. But first, the weather.

This is the true story. It is also a ghost story. 

Ten years ago, on a night just like tonight, a man was driving down a dark road, a man who defines himself much of the time as a radio host. But on this night, he was just a driver. And he saw a figure ahead, on the side of the road, a brief pause in a long fog. But he knew exactly who it was, and he took five seconds to collect himself. 

And he let her in. Because he know on this very stretch of road, one year to the day before that day that was ten years ago on a night just like tonight, a woman died. Oh, not the woman by the side of the road, she was still alive. Or she IS still alive. The woman who died was an old woman. 

And this old woman did not die in a mill fire, there are no old mills in Night Vale, it had just been this woman’s time to go. And this way of passing was mundane. The way that death always is. But still. He mourned the loss of what had been a part of his life. 

“Where you headed?” he said. And the woman from the side of the road spoke in a voice that sounded like – a normal voice, like anyone’s voice.

“You know where,” it said. “You know where I want to go.”

And he did know, because well, she called him and told him where she wanted to go.

“I want to go home,” she said. 

And he looked into her eyes and he saw the familiar face – of his older sister, Abby. She looked tired because she, too, had been thinking about that woman who had died. Because before that old woman had been just a memory. She’d been their mother. The unveiling of the gravestone had been that day and… There were stories to tell. Too many stories, and the weight of them started to seem physical. And now this, her car breaking down on the side of the road? 

“The service was nice,” she said. “I think Mom would have…” she said.

“Yeah um, yeah. Mom would have,” he said.  

See, my mother disappeared when I was only 14. Abby had just started school, but she had to drop out to return home and raise me, and I thought that Mom would be back at any moment, like maybe she was away on business. Our out for a walk. Or just hiding.

But Mom did not come back, not for my entire childhood. And I was petulant and subversive, and Abby was reserved and controlling and she blamed me for having dropped out of school and I blamed her for just… not being Mom. 

But in our adulthood, my mother did return home, sick and sorry to two children who barely spoke to each other in the morning. But we came back together to be with her and Mom… [softly] She looked older than she was. And her face – was gone. And in its place was the face that time had given her. She’s lost many battles to herself. Alcohol, debt, and lack of treatment or even awareness of a mental illness.

See, some creatures have claws, and and and and some have have pincers and and and some have venom, but some creatures have wings. And Mom flew away, when all other defenses failed her. But still, Abby and I started talking to each other, once again, trying to heal ourselves and navigating that dark and narrow path of forgiveness. And then a few months later – Mom left us again. This time for good. And a year after that on a night just like tonight, a man drove his sister home. And she gets out of the car, and and and she goes into her house, and and and he drives away, it’s it’s simple it’s this, then this, then this, then this, then this. 

You see, the reality of ghost stories is that they would be comforting, not scary, if they were true like reassuring proof that we go on, after the after. Or a chance to speak with someone that we will never be able to speak with again, but instead we live in a story about us, and about our relationships, and about our families, and the choices of our families going back and back and back. And this story in the same way that a ghost story is scary because it is – unresolved. And filled with symbolism that we just don’t understand. 

And family history, after all, is just another kind of ghost story. So ten years ago, on a night just like tonight, when the fog lay heavy on the lowlands, a man drove his sister home. And eleven years on a night just like tonight, their mother died, and it didn’t –mean- anything, but it happened. And the sister stood by and watched it happen and the brother, talked on the radio and didn’t even know that it had happened until afterwards, and there was nothing that they could have done. But still they regretted everything they didn’t do, and when she called to tell him what had happened, they were both silent for ten. full. seconds. 

[sighing] [long beat] Thirty years ago, on a night just like tonight I, I tripped on this wire, here at the radio station, and now sometimes I can still feel it. Fifty years ago on a night just like tonight, a baby was born. Oh, no one important to this story, babies are always being born. A hundred years ago there was a war, or not, you know, a hundred years ago exactly but more or less a hundred years ago on a night just like tonight, there was a war. On a night just like tonight 300 years ago, a woman picked up a handful of grass on a sunny day and realized she was not living the life that she wanted to live. She was not sure why she picked up that handful of grass, she was not sure why she did that either. On a night just like tonight 600 years ago, feudalism. [long beat] I think. I’m actually not quite sure when feudalism was. 

Oh, a 1,000 years ago on a night just like tonight, a man had the best pear he would ever have. But he didn’t know it at the time, he just thought, “Wow, this is a really good pear. 1,002 years ago on a night nothing like tonight, the same man would have the worst pear he would ever have. Oh, but he knew it at the time, he was like, “Agh, this is a terrible pear!” 3,000 years ago on a night just like tonight, people scraped in the dirt for food or they looked for it in trees or, they reached their hands into water and came out clutching what they found there, which in essence was another day of life, and they took that, wriggling, into their bodies and consumed it. 22,000 years ago on a night just like tonight – trees. That one I’m entirely sure of. There were a lot of trees then. And now but then, more of them now. 103,000 years ago on a night just like tonight, a child felt very bad about something that he had one, but not knowing how to make up for it, he ran away. But then having nowhere else to go, he returned home the next day to a family that had already forgiven him. 100 million years ago on a night just like tonight, there was (-) and stars and accidental beauty that would not be described as beauty for millions of years, and colors that were not colors just yet, just a different type of light. 

And millions of years later, a man would drive his sister home because he loved her, and because it was their story to tell, they were living in a ghost story that did not have the comfort of fear, but merely a dull ache and tangle, at the heart of it. And millions of years before that, a volcano erupted and for just one moment, it looked like a fountain of jewels, but no one was around to see it happen. And hundreds of millions of years later, there would be babies born at every moment and everyone would see everything happening and it would always be so loud, but millions upon millions of years ago, before ghost stories, before even stories, it was quiet sometimes, sometimes it was quiet for a long time. Hundreds of millions of years ago it was very, very quiet for a very long time. 

[long silence] And then of course, there was small talk. Laughter and love. Love of every kind. And getting to sit next to your sister, watching her daughter, your niece, in her first ever ballet fight. Feeling – lucky to be haunted by the family that you have. Huh. Well. That’s my story submission. 

And it looks like I got it in just in time, as the City Council indicates that the ghost story competition is coming to a close, and they will announce their dinner very soon. Win-winner! Winner! They will announce the winner very soon, that’s yeah mm hm, yeah.

Stay tuned next for that uncertain moment of silence between the last word spoken and the first applause. And from a night that is so much like tonight, as to almost be – indistinguishable. 

Good night,

Night Vale,

Good night. 

[applause] 

 Welcome to Night Vale is a production of Night Vale Presents. It is written by Joseph Fink and Jeffrey Cranor with original music by Disparition. [applause] 

Live at L.A. Podcast Festival


Close your eyes. Let my words wash over you. You are safe now.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Local historians are protesting the removal of the Shape in Grove Park that No One Acknowledges or Speaks About. While their protest has been hampered by the fact that none of them will acknowledge or speak about it, they did — through a system of gestures and grimaces — convey the message that, whatever the Shape is, and whatever its effects on nearby neighborhoods, it is a Night Vale landmark and should be protected.

The Shape itself offered no comment — only a low moaning and gelatinous quiver. The City Council would not provide any reason for the removal, but they did say that any work in Grove Park was making way for a new swing set, picnic area, and bloodstone circle, which we all can agree are good contributions to our community.

The Night Vale Green Market Co-Op announces today that, after 15 years, they will begin selling fruits and vegetables. Green Market Board President Tristan Cortez said that recent customer surveys indicated that shoppers have grown tired of empty pickup trucks and vacant tents lining the City Hall parking lot every Sunday morning in the summer and fall.

Cortez said that research indicates consumers are more likely to 

 products if they are available and for sale, and that Green Market and Grocery shoppers tend to purchase 

 items. Cortez says that the decision to sell food at the Green Market was a controversial one, as many board members and Co-Op shareholders feel fruit and vegetable sales will interfere with their ongoing secretive domestic espionage operations.

When reached for comment, our source within the Secret Police only breathed heavily into the phone while tapping an as-yet uncracked code into the receiver.

Michael Sandero, starting quarterback for the Night Vale Scorpions, has reportedly grown a 

. It is not currently known whether this is a result of the previously reported lightning strike, or just another odd coincidence in this kid’s odd life.

People in the know say that the new head is looking better, smarter than the first one, and even Michael’s mother has issued a statement indicating that she likes it much better than her son. And that she will be changing the rankings on the public “Which of My Children I Like Best” board outside of her house.

Sandero could not be reached for comment.

Probably.

We didn’t really try.

Friends, listeners; there’s a real tarantula problem here in Night Vale. Many residents have called in to report that illiteracy, unwanted pregnancy, and violent crime are on the rise in the tarantula communities. Animal control is addressing these concerns through after school programs called “Teach a Spider to Read — Stop the Madness.”

Those interesting in volunteering should stand in their bathtubs and weep until it is all gone.

Nothing left.

You can let go now.

Let go.

Shhhhh.

Let go.

And now a message from our sponsor.

Uh, Intern Leland, who is our first sponsor for today’s show?

Ah, thank you so much, Leland! And now, back to our regularly scheduled programming.

Ladies and gentlemen, the rumor mill is abuzz. We’ve had a celebrity sighting in our little burgh!

Old Woman Josie and one of her Angel friends reportedly saw Rita Hayworth getting gas at the Fuel ‘n Go over by the bowling alley. 

, ladies and gentlemen! Right here in Night Vale. Can you believe it? Old Woman Josie said that Rita was looking a little bit older, moderately obese, and considerably more Hispanic, but the Angel assured her it was indeed Rita. And he is an Angel after all…he would know, right? Wow! 

 Rita Hayworth! Here in Night Vale! Just imagine!

And now, an update on the Shape Formerly in Grove Park that No One Acknowledges or Speaks About: it seems the City Council, in their superhuman mercy and all-seeing glory, have chosen to move the Shape directly in front of our own radio station, where it is continuing to be what can only be described as indescribable.

The Shape was not available for comment as I could find no one willing to speak to it…or even meet my eye when I mentioned it. It has occurred to me that I may be the only one able to see it.

Now that I think about it, I have also never bothered to actually check whether this mic is attached to any sort of recording or broadcasting device.

And it 

 possible that I am alone, in an empty universe, speaking to no one, unaware that the world is held aloft merely by my delusions and my smooth, sonorous voice.

“More on this story as it develops,” I say, possibly only to myself.

The Night Vale Community Theater is holding auditions for its fall show, “Once On This Island.” Interested thespians should bring a head shot and resume to the Recreation Center auditorium on Thursday night.

All auditionees must perform a one-minute monologue and sing one song. Bring sheet music along if you would like piano accompaniment. Auditionees will also be required to do a cold reading, and give blood and stool samples along with mandatory radiation testing following the auditions.

Do 

 sing anything from South Pacific.

People of color are urged to audition, as Night Vale Community Theater is an equal-opportunity employer.

Oh, also, actors with long-range sniper training, FORTRAN computer programming, and top-notch wilderness survival skills are a plus.

Final casting will be announced in secret via dirigible.

No one can ever know.

Update on the Green Market situation from earlier in our broadcast. Everything is exactly the same as when we last reported on it, and there is no new information.

Listeners, do you ever think about the moon? I was sitting outside last night looking at the moon and I thought, does anyone 

 know what that thing is? Have there been any studies on it? I went to ask Carlos, but he hasn’t been seen much since that treacherous Telly’s vile haircut.

The moon’s 

 though, right? It’s there, and 

, and then suddenly it’s not. And it seems to be pretty far up. Is it – is it watching us? If not, 

 

 it watching instead? Is there something more interesting than 

? Hey, watch 

 moon! We may not always be the 

 show in the universe, but we 

.

This has been today’s Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

And now, a word from our sponsor. Leland? Uh, who else do we have supporting our show?

Thank you, Leland!

The Night Vale School District has announced some changes to the elementary school curriculum. They are as follows:

In response to parent feedback, history classes will focus more heavily on textbook readings and traditional exams, rather than live ammo drills.

Oh, geology is adding a new type of rock on the grounds that it’s been a while since anybody has done that. The new type of rock is “vimbee,” and it is categorized by its pale blue color, and the fact that it is completely edible. Points will be awarded to the first student to discover a real-world example of it.

Math and English are switching names. Their curriculum will stay exactly the same.

Astronomy will now be conducting stargazing sessions only with blindfolds on every participant, in order to protect them from the existential terror of the void.

Oh, also, Pluto has been declared imaginary.

All classrooms will be equipped with at least one teacher physically present for the entire instruction period. Astral projection will no longer be used in any classroom.

And finally, in addition to the current foreign language offerings of Spanish, French, and Modified Sumerian, schools will now be offering Double Spanish, Weird Spanish, Coptic Spanish, Russian, and Unmodified Sumerian.

And now a continuation of our previous investigation into whether I am literally the only person in the world, speaking to myself in a fit of madness caused by my inability to admit the tragedy of my own existence.

Intern Leland recently brought me a cup of coffee. He is no longer in my field of vision, but I 

 still have the cup of coffee. Which is well made, and is giving me that needed pick-me-up to continue considering this terrifying possibility.

Is it possible that I only 

 Leland, and forgot making myself this cup of coffee? But then, who would have 

 this coffee? Where was this cup produced? Hmm.

Oh, Leland is, uh, back in the room, and he’s waving at me — um, hello, Leland — uh, he’s saying…wait, what was that, Leland?

Listeners, Leland has stopped speaking, and is now writing furiously on a piece of paper. I have to say, Leland’s existence, as well as his finally speaking about the Shape Which No One Else Would Speak About, has reassured me greatly about my lonely and solipsistic vigil here at this microphone.

He is handing me the note — thank you, Leland — lemme see here…ahh.

It says that the City Council believes the reason for the violent reaction of the Shape Formerly in Grove Park that No One Acknowledges or Speaks About is because I have been acknowledging and speaking about it, which has made it angry. They urge me to stop speaking of it, and never do it again. And in exchange they’ll move it somewhere else so we can get our front loading zone back.

After brief consideration, I have decided to accept the Council’s offer, because they are trustworthy leaders looking out for our better future. And also because Leland just now got vaporized by a strange red light emanating from the station entrance.

To the family of Leland, we thank you for his service to the cause of community radio, and we join you in mourning his loss.

And, without further ado, nor ever again mentioning anything we shouldn’t, let’s go to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Hello listeners.

In breaking news, the 

. The 

. 

Existence as an unchanging plane, with horizons of birth and death in the faint distance.

We have nothing to speak about. There never was. Words are an unnecessary trouble. Expression is time wasting away. Any communication is just a yelp in the darkness.

Ladies, gentlemen, listeners, 

.

I am speaking now but I am saying nothing. I am just making noises and, as it happens, they are organized in words but you should not draw any meaning from this.

The service for Leland was lovely. We threw flowers and wept. He was buried in the break room, as is our custom. His family came, and mooned around the office, as though we had answers.

But we do not have answers. I am not certain that we even have questions. I have chosen to not be certain of anything at all.

This is Cecil, generally, speaking to you, metaphorically, for Night Vale Community Radio.

And I would like to say in the most nebulous terms possible, and with no real-world implications or insinuations of objective meaning:

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

————————

Sara & Sean Watkins returns for music set. Song list:

Ladies and gentlemen, surely you have noticed…there’s a 

 in a 

. Countless residents have seen him, but no one can seem to remember exactly what he looks like; just that he has a tan jacket and a deerskin suitcase. And he has been spotted all over town. But no one can quite recall specifically 

 they saw him, or what time of day it was – just that they saw him.

Frances Donaldson — the tall woman with the green eyes who manages the antiques mall — thinks maybe the Man in the Tan Jacket is simply a shared dream. But I know that 

 saw him, Night Vale. I 

 what I saw. This man can’t possibly be a dream. He was so 

. His eyes were…well, his nose and his chin…oh— oh, I can just see it! I just can’t remember! The man was as clear as day! He had a tan jacket, and a deerskin suitcase.

He can’t be a dream, can he? Please, call in, listeners, and let us know if 

 can remember anything else.

This Monday through Friday is the annual Night Vale Career Fair at the Downtown Convention Center. There will be dozens of booths, representing phony local businesses that will take your resumes and photos (via hidden surveillance cameras) and conduct sample interviews designed to badger you into implicating yourself in nefarious activities.

First-generation Night Vale residents — particularly those whose parents were originally born in Maine, Massachusetts, Canada, Micronesia, and Suriname — are 

 encouraged to attend.

This year’s keynote speaker is an audio tape of droning moans leaden with subliminal tips about achieving personal prosperity and how to come clean about the terrible things you have done, 

.

Last year’s fair featured several very high-profile arrests – and some nice door prizes. Tickets are $25, or $15 if you still have working retinas to scan.

Over the weekend, Teddy Williams — owner of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex — sent us some security camera footage of what he believes to be the first-ever glimpse of citizens of the Underground City deep below Lane Five.

Early Saturday morning, Fun Complex cameras picked up blurry motion near the soda machine. The footage is quite fuzzy and difficult to discern. Perhaps it is merely rats or raccoons, digging through an uncovered supply of junk food. But it is, of course, 

 more likely that a lost nation of people, living in the bowels of a small-town bowling alley, are finally revealing themselves – taking our food supplies, and preparing for war.

Teddy told us that he believes this city to be thousands strong and ready to move into Night Vale. Ready to take arms against the 

 (as they probably call us). Ready to conquer this heaven and become the righteous owners of our sun-soaked precious land…

.

It takes very little extrapolation to believe that they worship a god named 

, who demands sacrifice to keep their Underground City thriving in the absence of nourishing sunlight.

And a fair assumption is they are ruled by a Child King, recently coronated, who is too weak to rein back the generals intent on 

.

Ladies and gentlemen, if you care for your community, your town, 

 like I do, please know that you will 

. You will rally your neighbors to militia. You will point fingers at those who do not wish to fight and have them rounded up into pens. 

 We are at a presumptive war with a projected enemy whom we cannot yet see, or even be certain of, but who are 

 

.

If you would like to learn more about starting a militia, simply learn to be a 

 American. 

 how you will know. And remember, 

 Your careless talk costs lives. 

, and it seems 

.

Who was it, Night Vale?

Was it 

? Did Steve Carlsberg talk?

Maybe a group of 

 citizens should go have a 

 with Steve and find out what he’s been saying, 

.

Stay by your radios, listeners. We will report further as events warrant.

And now, a word from our sponsor.

Intern Rob? Uh, who do we have sponsoring this segment of our show?

Um, I’m very sorry about your cousin Leland, Rob.

He was a very good intern. Tell us about Squarespace.

Thank you, Rob.

More now on the Man in the Tan Jacket.

Old Woman Josie called to tell us that her Angel friends are saying that the deerskin suitcase is 

. The Angels would not tell her more, explaining that 

 more would jeopardize her Eternal Soul, as well as their own statuses as Angels. They did 

 want to mess with that!

Old Woman Josie added that she thinks the Man in the Tan Jacket is just a 

 of some sort. A fly salesman, she bets, wandering from town to town with polished shoes and a suitcase full of flies.

“Oh, I just can’t 

 those fly salesmen,” she said. “Ringing my doorbell at 3:00 AM, wanting to show me samples, asking for glasses of orange milk!”

The Night Vale Daily Journal has announced that, despite its recent cost-cutting measures and mandatory subscription laws, it is facing a 

 budget shortfall this year.

"We cannot pay back our printers, or our delivery crews,” said editor Leann Hart, in a prepared statement whispered through my mail slot late last night. “And we have already had to banish much of our staff into the Sand Wastes of the desert.”

She went on to explain that this “budget shortfall” has 

 to do with the reported lavish birthday party she threw for herself in the Night Vale Stadium – featuring a lazy river made entirely of champagne and a birthday cake topped with 

 slices of moon rock.

In an addendum she tapped in Morse code on my bathroom window, she said that the Journal is considering all new sources of income — including creating additional advertising space and mugging Night Vale citizens. And that I shouldn’t mention the whole birthday party thing after all, because she was 

, so how could she have had a birthday party?

She spent the rest of the night tapping out the phrase 

 which actually was a pretty relaxing sound to fall asleep to.

Hey, kids and parents! Time once again for our Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner! Today, we are exploring common birds and their meanings.

An eagle indicates that an important phone call is impending. A sparrow says that you should beware the sea, and sell any stocks invested in food-based companies. A pigeon means that your mother has died — 

 that all is well. It’s a bit uncertain.

A hummingbird tells us that the physical constants of the universe are slowly degrading, and may someday shift, invalidating the laws of physics and instantly wiping out the universe as we know it while simultaneously creating an entirely 

 universe in a single transcendent moment of genocide and genesis.

As for hawks, well…no one knows what hawks mean, really. Or if they are real. Have you ever 

 a hawk? No, of course not. 

This has been the Children’s Fun Fact Science Corner.

And now another word from our sponsors.

Today’s program has been sponsored by the physical act of 

. For thousands of years, 

 has been there for human beings when they needed an expressive gesture of the throat. Whether you want to indicate nervousness about an upcoming test or appointment, fear of the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home, or you just want to ingest milk faster than with regular swallowing, 

 is the way to go! Forget sweating, never mind shivering! Sneezing? Ugh! When you think physical actions, think 

! 

 now and receive a complimentary prize package, which will be conveniently buried in an unmarked spot somewhere in the Scrublands. Find it, and it’s yours!

This just in:

The Sheriff’s Secret Police has just issued an important request related to our earlier story. They ask that all Night Vale citizens be on the lookout for a Man in a Tan Jacket, carrying a deerskin suitcase. He is about five or six foot…

, probably with hair, and normal human features.

He was last seen early this morning on the unlit, gravel-paved stretch of Oak Trail, near Larry Leroy’s house out on the edge of town. The Man in the Tan Jacket was reportedly seen in the moonless black, standing next to a refrigerator engulfed in flames.

And he was smoking a cigarette.

Witnesses claimed he stared at them as they slowly drove by on the darkened country road, but despite the prolonged eye contact, the witnesses 

 could not describe his face to police.

Two days prior, the Man in the Tan Jacket was seen standing in a park. No one can remember 

 park, but they’re fairly certain it was a park. Or maybe it was in the Old Navy Outlet Store. Or near the invisible clock tower…it wasn’t quite clear.

Either way, the man was 

 standing with his deerskin suitcase, and staring up at the sun for hours. He followed the bizarre glowing orb, which is somehow the source of all light and life, and —

 the Secret Police then interjected.

Secret Police officials added that if you see a Man in a Tan Jacket carrying a deerskin suitcase, write down what you see 

.

The City Council has temporarily lifted their ban on pens and pencils, so that citizens can help law enforcement on this matter. Once you write down your encounter, call 911 immediately. Or simply say, “Hey, police!” out loud. We’re 

 being monitored almost 24/7, so they’ll probably hear you just fine.

Let’s go now to the traffic.

There is a car.

It’s not in Night Vale, or even in the desert that cradles our little town. It’s out, 

 beyond that. There are many cars there, but I’m speaking only about one. Blue, square-ish, with tires, and windows, and an engine that works…most of the time.

A woman is driving it, and she is also glancing whenever she can at the child in the passenger seat. He is a child, but he is 15.

You understand.

She is glancing at him, but she is not 

 anything. And 

 is not saying anything either.

She wants to cry…

 she wants to push him out of the car…

 she wants to go back in time and 

 on using a condom…

…only she would never do that.

She wouldn’t change any of this reality. Not for all the money — 

 of money, some of it 

 money from defunct and absent governments — she wouldn’t give 

 of that back.

And so she drives her car. Blue. Square-ish. With tires. And windows. And an engine that works…most of the time. And she glances at the 15 year-old child. And neither of them speaks.

This has been traffic.

Um, hey Rob? Can you come here for a second?

Rob? You’re bleeding.

From the eyes.

Should you go see a doctor?

Right, right.

[awkward silence]

…Rob?

There are spiders crawling from out of your shirt.

You have a heart murmur?

You should never pick at a heart murmur!

And now the spiders have gotten out. Whoa– whoa! Rob! You are losing a lot of blood! Why don’t you go get an ice pack and lay down?

Rob?

Have you ever seen this Man in the Tan Jacket? He has a deerskin suitcase. Many people have reported–

Rob.

Rob?

Oh dear.

To the family of friends of Rob the Intern, let me be the first to say that he was an excellent intern, and a beautiful person. Sure, his last moments were filled with spiders pouring from his heart, and blood streaming from his eyes, but beauty should have nothing to do with our physical differences. Beauty is what you do! What you mean, what you say, and what you are before the world devours you. Beauty is not in the arthropods spilling from one’s breast, but in the heart that once contained them. If Rob has taught us anything, let it be that.

And also, never pick at a heart murmur!

And now, without further ado, let us go to the weather.

[“

” by Sara Watkins]

Ladies and gentlemen, during the break, I received a call from someone 

 to be an 

.

Now, I don’t know if this was a prank or not, as no one has actually 

 that they’ve talked to an Angel. Even Old Woman Josie’s word is just that, 

But listeners, I think this had to be an Angel, because my face became 

, and the voice filled every part of my body, and tears were flowing down my face the instant I touched the phone receiver, and the whole room was lit up in — well, how can I describe this? — a bright black beam illuminating every atomic detail!

And the Angel — if that is indeed who called — the Angel said that the Man in the Tan Jacket with the deerskin suitcase was from a place 

.

Underneath our knowledge.

A vast world, right below our feet.

I asked for more, but the Angel — if that is indeed who called — whispered only, 

And it filled me with 

 and 

Then, as the call ended, and the black ray of truth was gone, and I was 

and alone. And listeners, dear listeners, the 

…well, it was unlike any silence you have 

 

 heard.

So our mystery man remains un-found, and I’m still not sure 

 an Angel would have to use a telephone, but for now, we can only know what we know. And that is that we 

 know.

Thank you again for listening, listeners. I look forward to another fine year. A 

 year, well-spent with all of you, out there.

Please stay tuned next for the popular radio game show, “Wait, Wait, Don’t! No, Don’t! Please, Don’t!”

Night Vale, be alert, and write down 

 you cannot comprehend.

Until next time, goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

The Debate


We found a little piece of heaven here. It is black, smooth, oblong. It hums a soft but discordant note, and we are afraid to touch it.

Welcome to Night Vale. 

Listeners? We have a first here Night Vale! A mayoral debate!

Many of you know that mayor Pamela Winchell will be stepping down soon, and that this is entirely her own decision. She issues daily press releases in shaky, uncertain handwriting, explaining emphatically that she made this choice on her own, and that no one is soul-merging with her and forcing her to leave office.

Each press release is signed, “Yours truly, though not me truly, Pamela. P.S. –” And then there’s just a sticky black sludge for a P.S.

And we have some new candidates for this coveted office, all of whom I am welcoming in this studio.

This is a great day! The first ever mayoral debate the town has seen. Since this is America, and we are a democracy, mayors have always been chosen by counting, and interpreting, the loud pulses coming out of Hidden Gorge. That’s still how it will be done, but we thought we’d offer a chance for citizens to hear from the candidates they’ll have no impact on electing.

But first, this breaking news:

The City Council announced the closure of Route 800 for the following reason: deer. The City Council spoke in low, sing-songy chants, a steady digital bass ululation underneath their unified voice. They stood atop a makeshift pyramid out of heavily charred copies of the official biography of Sean Penn, heroic mementos of our recent victory over the Night Vale Public Library, and announced that the deer have taught themselves advanced mathematics, telepathy, and short-range time travel. No official word yet on what these deer have done to cause the only highway in and out of town to be shut down, but the Council is asking anyone still out on the roads right now to please, return home.

If you are not a citizen of Night Vale, but cannot currently get out of town to your home because of the road closings, then congratulations! You now live in Night Vale! Please pick up a New Citizen Welcome Packet and mandatory orange poncho at the City Hall.

OK, listeners! It’s time to introduce the candidates who will be taking part in our studio debate.

First, someone I’ve known my whole life, and you have too. It’s the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives In Your Home!

Welcome!

And where are you? I can hear you, but I can’t see you.

Ooooh! Uh, Faceless Old Woman, um…can I 

 you Faceless Old Woman?

You do?

…

Let’s introduce the next candidate, and I’m so glad to finally meet this man. Nooo, not man. No, this person…noo, uh, not person. This 

, Hiram McDaniels.

You know, in the entirety of Night Vale’s recorded history, there is no sign of a five-headed dragon 

 running for mayor, so it hasn’t happened in at least seven years.

And speaking of your opponents, let’s meet our last candidate for mayor. It’s an honor to introduce our wealthiest citizen, and now potential new mayor, billionaire Marcus Vanston! Welcome!

Great! Let’s get the debate started! We’ll have opening statements as well as two rounds of questions. So listeners, if you have a question, call now. Call, silently, to the sky with pleading eyes. When the birds come you will feel your question has been received. You will not know for sure, because presumed knowledge is arrogance.

But first, let’s pause for a quick word from our sponsors.

It’s not easy starting a small business. There are a lot of things to worry about, like building a customer base, developing a strong product, wrestling with self-doubt, crying a lot, bleeding a little, looking up in the small hours at the sagging ceiling over your too-small bed thinking, “Why? Why?” Being overrun by rats and worms, and discovering that you are just matter, just rotting organic matter, fated to feed the earth and trees.

Yes, there are many concerns facing small businesses. Web design should not be one of them!

Hey! Want a simple low-cost and beautifully designed web solution for your small business? Well, do you?

It…doesn’t sound like you do, actually.

I am looking at your web page right now, and it is lovely! Really smooth, really easy to navigate. Looks like you put a lot of thought into this, and you…don’t need our help. We won’t even tell you who we are because we don’t want to pressure you into changing what you’ve already done with your web site. It’s…it’s perfect! Wow! Good job! Really, we…we just…wow! We are sorry to have interrupted.

I just want to say, you are really, really good at web design.

Much better than us.

Carry on, I guess.

Let us get to our opening statements. You have two minutes each. Faceless Old Woman.

Thank you for that! Let’s go next to Hiram McDaniels and his opening statement. Hiram?

Charming. Thank you, Hiram!

Marcus Vanston.

Go ahead with your opening statement.

“

Thank you, Marcus. Thank you, candidates, for your desire to serve the Night Vale community with your leadership.

I want to go now to the issues. But first, an update on our earlier news story.

Listeners, we’ve just received word that the newly-intelligent deer are stopping on the road, and allowing themselves to get hit by moving vehicles. They are then using that physical contact to launch themselves, and the drivers, and the wrecked vehicles, backward in time by several days.

The leader of the deer, a two-headed spider-eyed mule deer named, as all deer are named, Deer, apologized for the problems they are causing, but they just want to experience pain.

They have been so numb, emotionally, physically, spiritually, and they want to remember again what it is like to hurt. Not just in their bodies, but to see others suffer as well.

“The time travel was a happy accident,” Deer admitted, as they had no idea humans experienced such angst, such terror, when confronted with multiplicity of self.

The Sheriff’s Secret Police remind us that while capable of time travel, the deer don’t actually understand the implications of parallel universes versus linear continuity. The deer, while talented, are still very dumb animals.

The deer countered that the Sheriff’s Secret Police are 

!

The City Council are asking that residents lock their doors, and close their windows. The deer are organized, and they will stop at nothing to get what they want, Night Vale. Be safe.

And now, back to our first ever mayoral debate. Let’s reach out to our community, and find out what they want from their mayoral candidates. First caller, you’re on the air. Who is this?

Please, let the Faceless Old Woman finish, Mr. Vanston.

Oooookay!

Marcus, do you have a rebuttal?

Um, sorry for yet another interruption in our debate, but I’ve just received an update on the deer situation. The City Council announced that the deer are multiplying.

When asked how they are doing this, the City Council rolled their eyes, and said “the same way deer 

 replicate – by humming and breathing softly in unison until others that hear them suddenly become them! Good thing you’re a reporter and not a biologist!” the City Council teased.

But then a sudden shared laughter broke the tension of the room.

The City Council then announced that they just can’t be here anymore, and that they wish us all the best in our final moments.

“We’re pretty much done for,” the City Council reassured reporters. “The deer have taken over the streets, the sidewalks. Many are standing at your window right now for you to see their eyes and hear their hums.”

Do not open your window or doors, listeners. Stay by your radios. Stay always by your radios, and we will update you with more information.

OK. Uhh, next caller, you’re on the air. Who is this?

And what’s your question, Erica?

I’m sorry. What’s your question, Erika?

Let me stop you right there, Erika. Angels aren’t real. But go ahead with your question.

What was that?

Um, listeners at home, Marcus is hunched over, head turned away from his microphone. He is sobbing.

Uh, perhaps he has been chosen by the angels who – as a legal reminder – are not real in the slightest. But those who 

 chosen for special tasks by angels often cannot stop weeping when they talk about angels.

Uh, caller? You’re on the air with the mayoral candidates.

Uh, thank you, John. Candidates? What will you do to protect us from the Glow Cloud? What will you do to 

 the Glow Cloud? What efforts will you make to hail the almighty Glow Cloud?

[All chanting together:]

And to John’s point, it’s a difficult situation, given that the Glow Cloud 

 a stand-up member of our community. But, the Glow Cloud is also a

[All chanting together:]

Thank you for your call, John.

All right. Next up. Caller?

Erika? You sound different.

Well, yes! I mean, in your earlier call you sounded like a man, and now you sound like a woman.

Well. If angels 

 real, Erika, what 

your question be?

Marcus? Are you crying?

Oh, my. Marcus is rising from his chair. His feet are off the floor. He is stretching to inhuman lengths! His eyes are glowing black and his fingers are spiraling long and diaphanous.

Marcus? Ooooooh, dear.

Uh, listeners, Marcus grew gold feathers from his back, as he 

. And he is gone.

Um, goodbye, Erika!

Yes?

Yes? Go on.

Oh! All right!

Well, this debate has certainly taken an odd turn, listeners, but none of this happened and we will comment no further.

One last caller? You are on the air.

NO!!! NO!!! STEVE CARLSBERG!?! WE ARE OUT OF TIME FOR QUESTIONS GOODBYE!!!

Candidates, let’s get to our closing statements. Faceless Old Woman.

Thank you.

Hiram?

Thank you both!

Um, I’m very sorry for the…technical difficulties. I don’t know if you can hear that, but there is a very soft humming sound coming from the mics, or…or the soundboard, or…or something.

I remember this sound from before. Um, we’ll have an engineer come and take a look at it.

Uh, in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, and all in between, the deer…have gotten quite out of hand.

One of the sales staff, um, thank you, Roberta, just handed me a note that says there are dozens of deer surrounding this station and trying to peer into the windows.

Oh, she’s right, Hiram. But it's– it’s not the deer. The– the humming is something worse.

Listeners, I fear something much worse is lurking. So, as we all hide from the deer, and hide from the hum, and hide from it all, I take you now to the weather.

[“

”* by 

]

Listeners? The quiet humming is not the deer, but a swirling black vortex just outside our studio door. In fact, the deer have backed away from the station. I have seen this vortex before, listeners. And I am afraid to approach it. But Hiram went to look inside.

Who is this man? Not man. Who…is this 

? Why is he covered in blood? And where are his eyes?

You stay away!

Why are you here? Explain to me what you are doing here.

I….can’t….um…

He was…

I…you’re right. Um, thank you both.

Candidates, uh, thank you, also, for coming on the show tonight. I think you both would make an excellent mayor, and I look forward to casting a meaningless vote for one of you soon.

Listeners, thank you for listening to the show tonight. Remember that you may hear terrible machines and screams as corporate agents terminate the false deer. Their attempt to destroy our way of life, by bringing us together as one, has failed. We are free to remain ourselves and find our own connections – beautiful or grotesque. Either way, a beauty or grotesquery of our own choosing.

So relax tonight, Night Vale. You are yourself. You are safe.

Tonight is a good night.

Tomorrow is unconfirmed.

We will all find out together.

Thank you again, candidates, and listeners, do not forget to cast your vote on election day. We do not know where votes will be cast, what election day is, or if votes are even read, but…it is your democratic duty.

Stay tuned next for a chasm of subjectivity and bravado between yourself and every other human being.

Goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.

Hi again. Um, so Joseph invited me to…to come do this and asked if I could play something to kind of finish things up, and I didn’t quite know what the right thing to…for that might be, so I asked John from Disparition if he had any ideas, um, which he might explain if he had a microphone.

Um, I think he would say…well, I know what he said in the email, which was that it might be kind of nice if we played a song by Joseph Fink. And so…but we wanted it to be a surprise, so we didn’t rehearse it. 'Cause…'cause sneaky fellow that he is, he would have heard us.

So, um, yeah. This is “These and More Than These.”

[“These and More Than These” by Jason Webley and Disparition]

*on the bandcamp page, the song played in the weather is listed as “Last Song” but that listing is incorrect

The Investigators



And now, listeners of every kind, the voice of Night Vale, Cecil
Baldwin!


The writing is on the wall. It is not written in English. It is not
really even written. Clawed, more like. The claw marks are on the
wall.

Welcome to Night
Vale.

Listeners, be
warned: There is a murderer in our midst!

Ooh! I’m sorry,
that  was mega-dramatic of me. Let me start off with some
pleasantries.

Hello. My name is
Cecil. Welcome to my show, here on Night Vale Community Radio. We’ve
got some news and stuff coming up for you soon. Um, how are things
going with you?

I can’t hear
you…

I can’t hear
you…

No, really, I
can’t hear you because I’m all by myself here in my radio studio, but
I hope that you were yelling your heads off out there in your homes
and offices and cars and witching caves.

Now that the
small talk is out of the way, quick bit of news.


Last night, at the corner of Sausalito and Somerset, a body was
found. Police suspect foul play. Well, specifically they suspect
murder, but they didn’t want to get you all upset, and ‘foul play’
sounds so much less alarming and more fun!


A Sheriff’s Secret Police spokesperson said “Murder is just so
final, you know? So scary. We like 'foul play.’ It’s like people were
having fun, like a game…but a little bit rougher. But yeah, anyway,
somebody died pretty violently from…foul play. And it’s really
gross! But don’t worry, the first rule of any murder investigation is
to immediately clean up that murder scene and make sure it’s tidy,”
the spokesperson said.


As is the usual murder investigation procedure, the Sheriff’s Secret
Police is ordering every single citizen of Night Vale to gather in
the Rec Center for a mandatory night of murder mystery dinner
theater…so they can determine the killer’s identity.


There will be catering by Big Rico’s Pizza, and the Moonlite All-Nite
Diner will be providing invisible pie for those citizens that do not
eat visible food.


More on this soon. But first, a word from our sponsors.


Today’s sponsor is Evian. Here on their behalf is, of course, a
sentient patch of haze, and her name is Deb.


Deb?


Don'tcha know it, Cecil.


Okay, listeners. I’m here to tell you all about Evian brand water
beverage, and I certainly do hope that you consider Evian brand water
beverage over all other water beverage opportunities that are
available to you.


I know that you humans, insignificant meat-filled wisps that you are,
are probably thinking, “What difference could the water beverage
opportunity I select possibly make?”


And I’m sure you’re right. You’re very smart. I’m sure.

I’m
sure that all other water beverage opportunities 


been poisoned by unknown malicious parties, leaving Evian brand water
beverage the only safe selection. Why would that even happen? That
would be illegal. Immoral. And great for our sales.


Marketing a particular brand of water beverage is certainly very
difficult. You know what else is difficult? Death by poison. Hard,
slow, and painful.


Yes, if all other water beverage opportunities were poisoned, why
then your choice to select Evian brand water beverage would be very
important indeed.


Now, Deb, please tell me the truth. Did you poison our water?


Oh, Cecil. Not to my definitive out-loud knowledge. But who even
knows?


Uh, I feel like 


know.


Then maybe just follow that feeling. See where it takes you. Maybe
it’ll take you to Evian brand water beverage. Maybe it’ll take you
into a slow oblivion. The important thing is, nothing you do could
possibly affect me. As the good book says, human life: it’s just a
means to an end.


Uh, the good book?


The Sentient Haze’s Guide to World Domination. It’s a great book.


Evian brand water beverage. Can’t live without un-poisoned water.


Now, listeners, I know that you’re all at a dinner theater, but
perhaps avoid drinking anything with your food until we have this
whole situation sorted out.


It’ll be fine.


Yyyeah, but still, though, just to be on the safe side, you might
want to–


It’ll be fine.


Oh, okay, all right. Well, thank you very much, Deb!


And now, a public service announcement.


The Night Vale Psychological Association reminds you to take a few
moments each day for relaxing your brain. Never tried meditative
exercises? They suggest the following:


First, close your eyes. Breathe. Think about your breaths. In and
out.


Next, picture a beach. Picture gentle waves, and then wet sand, and
then dry sand, and then dune grass, flittering in a soft wind. And
then, a house. Picture a house. A really 

 house.


No, bigger than that. I’m thinking at least 3,000 square feet. Ooh,
picture, let’s say, a 3,500 square foot house, bedroom-wise. Three
bathrooms…like two and a half. Okay?


And we’re relaxing, and we’re breathing. And we’re picturing a 3,500
square foot craftsman style house with a wraparound porch and a porch
swing. And we are picturing our best selves, living our beset lives.
We are picturing a calm ocean.


We are picturing a media room with a back-projection screen and
reclining movie seats.


Let’s really relax now. Let’s feel very calm.


And let’s put a massage function on those movie seats!


We should now be feeling warmth prickling throughout our bodies, and
we allow ourselves to follow that warmth. We’re picturing peace,
we’re picturing love, love of every kind.


We are also picturing a wine cellar.


No no no no no, we are picturing a better wine cellar that 

!
We are picturing a modern humidity-stabilized temperature controlled
wine cellar, 

! Work with me on this!


And peace. We’re also picturing peace.


Yeah! This is really coming together! We’re all doing a great job
picturing this house with the strong foundation, like our spiritual
foundations, grounded and stable. With a good roof, like our minds,
sheltering and waterproof and recently redone by a certified
contractor. With a walk-in closet off the master bedroom, like our
hearts, finished with recessed lighting and a rotating shoe rack.


Picture this house. 

 this house in your mind. Have you
pictured the house? Great.


You can open your eyes now. Thanks. You’ve just built the Night Vale
Psychological Association a luxury beach house in your subconscious.
And we’ve already put it up on Airbnb! But we hope to have a few
weekends a year to use it for ourselves. Every time you fall asleep,
you might see strangers gathering in this house, living in your
dreams.


Keep doing those relaxation exercises. We don’t want our dream world
beach house spoiled by your weird mother issues.


Thanks.


This message was brought to you by the Night Vale Psychological
Association.


So, a spokesperson from the Sheriff’s Secret Police has just handed
me a note explaining that I am not required to attend the murder
mystery dinner theater, as I was here in my booth broadcasting during
the time of the murder.


Oh. Um, they just handed me another note, but it reads, “We don’t
know where that scientist is. Please let the scientist know he is
required to attend.”


Now, look. Carlos has been busy all day in his science
lab…science-ing. If, 

 he were even able to leave the lab,
he would certainly not just murder a stranger…without stopping by
the radio station to say hello to me first!


I’m gonna call Carlos right now.


Hey, you! I was just thinking of you.


Hi, I’m so sorry to bother you, but I’ve received some bad news from
the Secret Police.


Ugh. I knew this would eventually happen. They discovered that my
team of scientists is studying geology, right? I know, I know, it’s
illegal. And, as Francis Scott Key wrote in his famous poem, “Rocks
are just rocks! Mind your own business, pal!” But I find geology so
scientifically interesting, I cannot believe that they just– 



No no no, it’s not that. It’s…there’s been a murder, and the
Sheriff’s Secret Police need you to attend the mandatory murder
mystery dinner theater.


Oh. But that is great news! Um, I love dinner theaters. I, um, I took
some theater in college, you know, so I can play, like, a bunch of
different roles.


Oh, really?


Yeah, okay. So the part that 


wants to play in a murder mystery dinner theater, you know who it is?
It’s the butler.


Oh.


Because the butler gets to wear pastel tuxedos and carry this pet
rat. Ooh! And I can do, like, a 


really good snooty British accent. Ahem.

 “'Ey! I would never
murder anyone! Might I perhaps take your coat, sir?”


I don’t know if that’s really a 


accent.


Babe, it is.


Oh, is it?


Yeah. Mm-hmm.


Okay. All right.


So, like, another great role in the murder mystery dinner theater is
the rich heiress. Ah! The rich heiress! Um, okay. She gets to wear
this like tight black dress, and pearls, and a feathered boa (which
you know look amazing in).


I do.


I do. So, the rich heiress, of course, she 


like the murderer, because she always carries around this old
bloodstained axe, but that’s the thing! She only carries the ax
because her mother was the owner of the world’s biggest axe
manufacturing conglomerate, and their family made a great fortune by
chopping up people and taking all their money. Anyway, the rich
heiress has this glorious and smooth Romanian accent.


Please know that I would never murder anyone. Now go get me another
drink doll. Chop chop! I’m kidding. 


Ohhhh! Now, I’ve never been to Romania…


Babe, it’s a dead-on accent.


Oh, okay. All right. Now, listen, Carlos, I’m actually really
surprised to hear this side of you. I mean, I had no idea that you
were such a theater nerd!


Yeah! Like, I’m a scientist, sure, but that’s not 


I am, you know?


Yeah?


Like, getting to act in a murder mystery dinner theater would give me
the chance to be…


a scientist anymore, you know? Like, um, like, like I could be
anyone! Like…like a train conductor, and I’d shout “All aboard!”
Um, or a pizza maker, and I would shout, “All aboard, and it’s a
pizza!” Um, or, I don’t know, like, oh! Like a writer! And I’d
shout “I am alone, so terribly alone!”


Carlos, I– I think the idea is that everybody is just themselves,
so that way the police can easily scan the crowd and find out who
looks the most guilty. I mean, I don’t think that murder mystery
dinner theater is ever supposed to be 

!
They are grueling exercises in abrupt and arbitrary justice.


You know who I want to play? I want to play a librarian.


Oh, I don’t think that’s a very– 



“You seem to be very interested in young adult sci-fi adventure
novels. Might I recommend 

 by


?”

Whoo!
That felt really good.


It sounded good.


Thank you. But I would really, really need to work with the director,
you know, on how to get the pincers and all the long hairy legs just
right. Ooh! Ooh! And we would 


need to rig up a pulley system so that I could fly around the room
and then descend from the ceiling like a normal librarian.


Oh! Um, Carlos, I was just handed another not from the Secret Police
that reads: “No more, please! Tell him he doesn’t have to come to
the dinner theater at all!”


…But I wanted to come.


Aww.


Um, eh, it’s no bother.


Well, we will just have to put on our own murder mystery dinner
theater this weekend.


Okay. Um, I love you.


All right. I love you too.


Ooh! Ooh! You want to hear my Steve Carlsberg impression?


Goodbye, Carlos.


Okie-doke.


So, the Sheriff’s Secret Police has decreed that they will not have
Carlos perform after all. Despite the fact that Carlos is a great
actor, a 


actor, quote, “one of the most charismatic and gripping stage
performers of his generation,” end quote…is what I imagine they
were thinking, when they sent me this note that says “Hey, please
tell Carlos he’s not allowed inside the theater.” And then they
signed it with a less-than symbol and the number 3. <3

The
Secret Police will instead be presenting a very traditional murder
mystery dinner theater, in which the audience just stares at each
other in suspicious silence for a long time, and then goes home.

And,
indeed, everyone in the crowd was already looking around them for
someone that they suspected of murder. Each one of them was looking
around for someone that they thought might be a murderer. Now, they
looked past those people that they came with, or people who they
might already know, because well, they foolishly trusted those
people.

No
no no no. They sought out the eyes of a complete stranger. And then,
when they made eye contact with that stranger, they locked in,
staring at that person and 


at that person, each one of them thinking, “Yeah, that person could
be a murderer!”

And
then each one of them pointed at that person, and each one of them
said, out loud, “You could be a murderer!”

And
each one of them was right. That person 


be a murderer! And then, keeping their fingers pointed, each one of
them narrowed their eyes, and then they widened their eyes, and then
they crossed their eyes, and then they uncrossed their eyes because
it made it very difficult to keep an eye on the person they suspected
of murder, and then slowly they lowered their pointing fingers, and
each one of them said, out loud to the other, “I have my eye on
you, suspect!”

And
then they looked away, their hearts aglow at a job well done. But
they would remember the face of that stranger, because they knew it
would be important throughout the evening.

Listeners,
I know that many of you remember Intern Roheet, and the important
lessons that he learned (well, that we 


learned) about which spiders are safe to put inside your mouth.
Roheet was a good intern, and he will be missed.

But,
good news! We have a brand new intern! Welcome to the radio station.

 Hi, I’m intern Joseph
Fink. Wait…wait, no, this can’t be happening!


Nah, nothing ever can.


No, I remember this place without ever having been here. These gray
walls, that old table yellowed in a semicircular patch where you’ve
rested your arms for so many years, the water stains on the drop
ceiling, that small nest of owls over there in the corner…I
recognize all of this. No!


Is someone having a case of déjà vu?


Here’s what it is. There was this river that ran through my college
dorm room (naturally), and one day, in the river, I found a stone –
smooth on one side, rough on the other. I picked up the stone and in
that craggy side, I saw a face, and it told me that it granted
wishes.

So
I made a wish, and the face in the stone said, “What? Why did you
do that?” And I said, “Well, you said you granted wishes,” and
the face said, “No, I don’t grant wishes, I’m sorry, did I say
wishes? I meant curses. I cast curses. I curse you to see your own
death and to know it forever.”

And
in the smooth side of the stone, my death was shown to me. Every last
bloody and terrifying detail.


Coooool!

Oh,
wait, I’m sorry, I was just caught up in your story. It was very
good.


So now, here I am in the studio. I mean, did I even apply for an
internship here? Why would I do that? Why would anyone do that?!?

In
that stone, I saw you introduce me to your listeners. I saw myself
telling this story to you, exactly as I am now, verbatim, as if
reading from a script. I saw all of this as a vibrant memory, cause
and effect reversed by that awful rock. And now comes the terrible
pain of an imminent and all-too-familiar death.


No, don’t be so dramatic. You are not about to die! You are going to
be– 



Ow!


Oh! What? What is it?


I bumped my leg on the side of your desk.


Augh! You scared me, I thought that something serious had– oh my
God, you are bleeding 

!


Okay, yes. I remember seeing the part where I bleed a lot. Why do you
have a desk made entirely out of knives?!?


I don’t know! That’s…that’s just how IKEA makes them.


The end is nigh.


No! Nooooo! The end is not nigh, Intern Joseph, you’re gonna make it!


Tell my family I loved them.


I will tell them, but first, can I just…can I ask you one thing?
Um, what did you wish for from the stone, and– and I will do my
best to honor your wish, no matter what happens.


Wait. This is not how I die. I don’t bleed to death. There was
something else.


There wa– ju– just tell me your wish before you go. It– It–
would it– it would 


me not to know. I– 

I
would 

 never to
know.


It’s totally not the bleeding that kills me.


Just tell me the wish!


What kills me is…the…


Listeners…I do not know how a shark got into my radio station. Nor
do I know how it got back out again. But to the family of Intern
Joseph, ahh…he was a good intern, and he died doing what he loved:
living in perpetual fear of death.

I
only wish I knew his wish! 


You know what? I bet it was an Xbox! And so I shall purchase myself
an Xbox in his honor.

But
first, the Community Calendar.

Wednesday
evening Night Vale’s most popular restaurant, Tourniquet, will be
hosing a special chef’s table dinner. This exclusive event costs
$500, and is limited to only 13 attendees. Diners will enjoy a
special tasting menu personally curated and prepared by chef LaShawn
Mason. The five course menu will center around quail. Chef Mason
rediscovered the joy of quail meat, and would like to share this joy
with Night Vale. Sous chef Earl Harlan will recite instructions for
gutting and cleaning, and each diner will be given a live quail and a
brick. The chef’s table dinner begins at 7:30, at which time all
diners from last year’s event will finally be released from the
kitchen back to their old lives.

This
Thursday night, the Night Vale Tourism Board is holding an opening
night party to celebrate the new artwork on display at the Night Vale
Visitor’s Center – you know, out by Radon Canyon. The theme of this
gallery collection is “Pain. Internal, External, and Beyond!” and
it features work by several local artists, expressing a wide array of
popular art techniques from postmodern monochromatics to outdoor rock
sculptures, and even a few interactive exhibits like “Put Your Foot
In There” and “Hurts, Don’t It?” and “Stop Hitting Yourself!
Stop Hitting Yourself! Stop Hitting Yourself! Why Do You Keep Hitting
Yourself?”

Say,
did you know that it is completely possible for the human body to
survive unprotected in space for several seconds? No, it’s true! And
this information will be super useful to you this Thursday night at
8:00pm, so…lock it in, all right? Cool.

Aw,
Friday at noon, the eastbound lanes of Route 800 will be closed
between exits 17 and 19. All traffic will be rerouted onto side
streets. Highway crews will be posting signs with “All Roads
Nowhere and Every Path DEATH” and also just a couple of frowny
faces to help you with your morning commute.

Oh!
Saturday afternoon, the Night Vale PTA is hosting its third annual
youth arts fair. For more on this we go now to…

Oh,
no.

 Hey, Cecil! Thanks
for having me on!


Steve Carlsberg, secretary of the PTA.


Also chair of the youth arts fair committee.


No one asked.


Okay. Well, thanks for featuring our event on your show, Cecil. It’s
going to be a great time! Diane Crayton, Susan Willman, and I have
put together a lot of new activities this year. We’ll have a station
for finger painting, and another for face painting, and another for
casting bronze idols, and because it was such a huge hit last year, a
death pit!


Wait, 

? There’s a
death pit at a kid’s fair?


Well, yeah, we fill it with plastic balls.


Oh, well, that’s okay, I guess, then.


The youth arts fair focuses on creativity, fun, and personal
expression for kids. But listen, because of what happened last year,
we need to provide a clear warning that there 


be clowns at the youth arts fair.


What happened last year?


I can’t talk about it.


Oh, come on, I’m your brother-in-law, you can tell me!


No no, I 


cannot talk about it. We all had to go to City Hall for reeducation.
It was apparently that bad.


Oh.


Anyway, because of…whatever happened, many children are still a
little bit mildly terrified of clowns. But you know how powerful the
Night Vale Clown Union Local 189 is, so…

I
do.


…like any public event, we were required to hire a minimum of two
dozen clowns.


Oh.


However, for the sake of the easily frightened kids, the clowns will
not be allowed into the actual fair. They’ll have to stand inside the
elementary school, watching from the darkened rooms. Peering through
the narrow gaps in the blinds. The clowns will be just barely
discernible in the shadows, and thus not a distraction for the
children, who’ll only be able to see the faint shadows of curly wigs
and round noses and sharp yellow teeth, from behind the
breath-frosted glass of the rooms the children must sit in day after
day.


Yes, I remember, when I was a kid, our guidance counselor wore clown
makeup, and would hide inside closets with the door cracked, and just
so we didn’t get scared, he would make little growling gurgling
sounds. Just so that we knew he was there, and everything was okay.


Yes. That was wise behavior. It’s important, you see, that kids are
given the chance to trust clowns.

Mm-hmm.


Hey, you know what I love, is that funny clown thing where they’re
really funny, but, uh, they’re crying too?


Oh my gosh, yes, I love that. It's– it's– it’s hysterical!


Oh, it gets me every time! Ha-ha! Seein’ somebody cry? Seeing their
shoulders shake and their face fall!


Oh, right, right, right. Right, right. Like we’re laughing and
they’re crying, and they’re like, holding up photos of people that
they’ve loved and they’ve lost, and they’re crying over it!


And we’re laughing! It’s irony!


And irony is the best kind of humor because it’s so 

!


So yeah, anyway, it’s gonna be a lot of fun. Hey, Slenderman is even
going to be there!


Oooooooh! Principal Angela Slenderman is going to be there? That’s
great!


Yeah-huh, yeah. Hey, also, I wanted to mention, very qui– 



Nope. Out of time. Goodbye, Steve Carlseberg.

God,
that guy can talk 

,
right? Ugh. So sorry about that, listeners.


Uh, I’m actually still on the line, Cecil.


…Yeah, I know.


Oh, heh. Okie dokie! Just checking. You know.

 Steve is the
worst!


No, I’m still…I can hear it. Every single word.


Okay, you can hang up now, Steve.


O-o-o-okie dokie. I–

 Shhhh. Hang up the
phone.

 Okie dokie.


Ugh. So.

Sunday
afternoon, the Night Vale Community Players will be hosting auditions
for their next show, which is called “Oklahoma.” It’s an old
musical about people from a fictional U.S. state that must fight off
an attack from ballet dancing farmers – farmers that ride a herd of
elephants with corn husks for eyes. This controversial musical has
been lauded and derided by theater critics for its graphic and gory
death scenes. Auditions are from 2:00pm to 2:05pm, and a postcard
announcing the exact location of the auditions will be sent the day
before, so make sure that you wait silently in the shrubbery for your
mail carrier.

Tuesday
is a lie! Calendars are propaganda! Days and times are just
artificial walls built to divide us! 

 It’s true.

And
now, an update from the Rec Center. Everyone in town is still
participating in the murder mystery dinner theater, and the evening
is certainly providing a lot of theater, dinner, mystery, and
unfortunately, murder.

It
seems that whoever is the culprit in this case is working to expand
the number of cases that they are a culprit in. They have taken
advantage of the fact that all citizens are required to be at this
dinner theater production, and are slinking about in the shadows,
picking people off one by one.

Janice
Rio (from down the street) said that Bernie Simpson had been right
next to her, and then the next thing she knew, 

!
Bernie Simpson was right next to her.

And
then she paused for a really long time, as though expecting a
reaction, and then she said, “Oh, I’m so sorry! I forgot to say
that Bernie was a 


the second time! Yeah, he was a ghost and he winked at me, and he
smile, and he said, 'Hey, Janice, looks like I’ve been murdered!’ and
he laughed and laughed, and then he said 'Well, they got me. I’m dead
now!’ And it was so off-putting I had to change seats!” Janice
said.

Who
is this fiend? Where will they strike next? It could be anyone. It
could be anywhere. It is like that wonderful 

, in which the reader is playfully reminded again and
again that there’s a monster at the end of the book, but then of
course when the reader gets to the end of the book it turns out that
there is indeed a monster and our children are eaten after reading
it! Wait, that’s a 


book!

Anyway,
citizens, I urge you to please be safe. I would be so very upset if
you were not safe, so just…you know, 

.

In
light of the current emergency, the Sheriff’s Secret Police has sent
a spokesperson to the radio station to provide information and answer
any questions that might be raised about the current “dangerous
murderer on the loose in the room that you are all” in situation.
And the spokesperson has just pushed their soft wet snout out from
the soil, and has, uh, used their long digging claws to tunnel their
way into my booth.

So,
please say hello to the Secret Spokseperson.


Yes…what?


Uh…well, you’re hear to speak to us about the dangerous situation?


Oh, sure, sure. Citizens, we’re completely in charge, there’s nothing
to fear.


Okay, well that– 



Ahh!


Oh, what?


Sorry. I just thought of something really frightening.


Oh. Well, that’s okay–


Oh my God!


Okay, 

 what is it?


Oh, y'know, I was just remembering how I was thinking of something
frightening, and now I’m thinking about remembering it. Because,
truly, fear devours.

Anyway,
the investigation is moving forward, and we have got our best
officers on it. And all of the other officers who aren’t on it are
busy worrying that apparently they aren’t the best officers. Are they
the worst? This will keep them up at night. They will toss, and they
will turn…thus you can see everything is under control. I wouldn’t
worry. I’m great at not worrying. 


might worry, though. It all depends on how well you deal with the
stress of being in great danger.


Uh, well, how close are the Secret Police to identifying a major
suspect?


Oh, man. Whoo! That is some entitlement if I have ever heard it!


Entitlement?


We’re doing everything we can to stop this murderer! Like having a
murder mystery dinner theater, even announcing that there was some
foul play, well just this afternoon we ran through a neighborhood
crying out, “You’re done for! You’re all done for!” And now
you’re saying 'name a suspect?’ 'Make an arrest?’ 'Keep us safe?’ You
are 

. You are all


.

Probably.

Listen,
you’re either already dead, or you’re fine for this exact moment.


Umm, it doesn’t sound like we’re safe.

 Uh – Uh – Uh
– Uh – I understand your concern, Cecil.


B… And?


I don’t know. I understand it, it seems valid. Good concern. 



Oh.


I’m gonna head back to the Secret Police hover-office in the clouds
until it gets a little less dangerous around here.


No, wait. You’re just gonna go hide?


No.


Oh! But you – augh! You just nodded!


That doesn’t sound like something I would do. All right, citizens, we
are out of here. I hope that it all works out okay for you. Just
write down any concerns you have for us on a…like a paper airplane,
and then, like, toss it up to that one low-hanging cloud with a
ladder going up to it, and someone from the Secret Police will come
to your aid…just as soon as there are no murderers around and it is
safe to do so.


Okay, now wait just one minute…


No no no no no. There is no need to thank me, Cecil. But…um…but
obviously I would appreciate it. It–  it’s…always nice to be
thanked.


Okay, look, I am not going to thank you!


Uh…umm…I’ll give you, like, a moment more in case you change your
mind, like, uh…like a thank you would be nice.

OK,
no, I get it. There’s no need to thank me…if you’re a jerk.


Oh!


Goodbye.


Sensing that they would not be safe relying on the protection of
others, the citizens in the Rec Center were getting nervous. They
were shifting, some if them were 

,
and one of them was a murderer. But they didn’t know which one, and
so the citizens began to act in their own protection.

And
so they each looked back to that same stranger that they had
suspected before, each one of them looking back at that same person –
except for those people who, you know, just refused to like, look
around them, and so now found themselves without a partner. But those
people took 


opportunity to jump on board, and so they found somebody else that
was similarly reluctant to participate.

And
so they’re looking at their partners and you’re looking at your
partners, look at your partners…excellent. All right, great. And
the two strangers were pointing at each other once again, and in
their deepest, coolest voice they said, “I don’t trust you.”

And
then they tried, successfully (or not) to raise one eyebrow, and then
they said, “But we’re in danger, kid!” If they were gonna solve
this, they would need to work together. They would need to solve this
as partners, but they didn’t have to trust each other or like each
other, no way!

And,
in fact, one of them was already holding up a fist, and the other one
was pointing at the ceiling. But they didn’t quite know which one of
them should do which, because…the instructions were not very clear
on that point. So one of them began nodding, and the other one began
shaking their head, but again they didn’t know which one should do
which because, you know, the instructions were not altogether there
on that one either. But they just kind of worked it out between the
two of them, like, “Okay, I’m…I’m gonna point, and no,
and…okay, and you fist and yes? So I’m point…pointy and fisty.
Pointy fisty. Pointy fisty. Okay, cool. Awesome, awesome.”

See
how uneasy their working relationship? What a comically odd pairing.
What an unexpected duo! They were a classic trope, these two.

But
there was a murder to solve, so they would reluctantly partner up all
the same. And so they looked away from each other once again. Watch
out, murderer! These two are on the case.

Also
on the case are some brave middle schoolers. As is…as is standard
these days when Night Vale is in danger. Yes, a brave group of child
vigilantes and avid readers. And I have, here in the studio, their
leader, a courageous 14 year-old, one…one of the few children to
face down a librarian during the Summer Reading Program and survive,
Tamika Flynn.


Hello again, Cecil. Hello again, Night Vale. My militia of child
readers and I are working on – to discover who the murderer is. We
are making inquiries and looking at clues and reading the
acknowledgments in the backs of books. No one knows why those
acknowledgments are there, or what they’re trying to say, so we’re
left to assume that they are a complex code for malicious purposes.


Ooh, naturally.


My army and I are also wearing capes and donning bulletproof vests
made from copies of Thomas Pynchon’s 

, so…we should be safe from any murderer, and any
murderer should be very unsafe from us. We will have this case
wrapped up soon which is good, because if we had to depend on that
murder mystery dinner theater to solve the case, well, that murderer
would go on murdering until there wasn’t anyone left to murder and
then they wouldn’t be a murderer anymore.

Actually
that would solve the problem too, huh? Hmm.


So, you’re not impressed with the Secret Police’s dinner theater?


Oh, I hate all of that traditional “audience members looking at
each other suspiciously and then deciding to solve the case on their
own” stuff that we all know from every murder mystery dinner
theater that we’ve ever been to. I’d rather the Sheriff’s Secret
Police were staging one of those great mystery tales from the masters
of the craft, full of intrigue and plot twists and long lost twin
brothers and fake mustaches…like 

. Ooh! Or 

.


Ah, yeah.


Oh! Or 

’s
classic spy caper 

.


You know I just love the helicopter chase at the end of The Time
Traveler’s Wife? 


And that– and that catchphrase that she says right before she
arrests the main bad guy?


Oh! Oh, I know, I know. “This one’s for my husband. He’s a time
traveler.”


Yeah!


It’s classic.


Oh, I love it!


And, of course, there’s always 

.


Ahhh. But that’s not a mystery at all, that is a celebrity memoir.


Yes, but all copies come with a bejeweled dagger between chapters
seven and eight, so that should come in handy when fighting off a
murderer.

In
any case, don’t worry about your dinner theater because if we took
down a librarian (and we did), and if we took down a despotic regime
(and boy, did we), then what chance does one murderer stand against
the power of books?

Heavy
books. Heavy, heavy books dropped on their heads.

Wow.


I’m gonna drop so many books on that criminal’s head as soon as I
catch them.

Yeah.


Dump them right on there. Bam! Bunch of books.


Oh, yeah!


Just a bunch of teenagers running around crushing evil under the
complete hardback edition of all seven volumes of 

’s monumental novel, 

.


Truly the American justice system is the greatest in the world!


All right, I must be off. Remember: read, even a little, every day.
That way you’ll build up an immunity.


Great, thanks so much, Tamik– 



Books. To be clear, I was talking about books.


Oh.


Read books.


Yes. Um, ooh! Thank you very much, Tamika!

Oh.
Oh dear. Um, listeners, we are getting word that there has been a
nearly fatal incident back at the Rec Center, and many suspect that
this was no mere accident. The 15-gallon tub full of old socket
wrenches that was balanced precariously atop a few 2x6 planks of wood
next to the Rec Center basketball courts fell over, nearly crushing
the pair of strangers who recently came begrudgingly together to help
solve a terrible murder.

The
two strangers had been getting in each others’ way, challenging each
others’ authority, thinking things like, “You’re getting’ in my
way, buddy” and “Nuh-uh, you are,” and expressing their hurt
feelings using only the shapes of their mouths, worried that at any
moment, in fact in just a 


moments, they might have to look each other in the eye and say words
out loud again.

And
all along, right above them, the tub full of wrenches teetered.

Okay,
look. Eye contact can be uncomfortable, sure, but it is way less
uncomfortable than the weight of heavy metal objects falling upon
thin human skulls. And the tub full of wrenches teetered, and the
narrow planks beneath it groaned, groaned, and then gave, and then
snap! And the two strangers looked back to each other once again, and
they both simultaneously shouted the word, “Duck!”

And
they were right! A duck flew in through an open window and knocked
that tub full of socket wrenches harmlessly out of the way. And the
two strangers looked at each other, and…and smiled, and they both
said, “You have duck telepathy too?”

And
then they laughed, together. Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha! And it was a long
healthy true laugh. Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! It was a completely
natural 


laugh. Ah-ha-ha-ha-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh…

And
then they turned away from each other, back to the job of solving
crimes. But each one of them thought, “I’m beginning to have a
begrudging respect for your skills, kid.”

Sadly,
that tub full of socket wrenches had been teetering 12 feet off the
ground on those thin pine boards since the Rec Center was built five
years ago, so…woo! It is a real shame to lose such an important
architectural feature of such a historic building.

Now,
in response to this dire circumstance, Mayor Dana Cardinal has sent
her official Night Vale Director of Emergency Press Conferences to
issue an emergency press conference. So please welcome former mayor
Pamela Winchell.


Hello, people of Night Vale! Hello, non-people of Night Vale! The
nonexistent ones among us – you know you you aren’t – hello to
the non-physical entities who drift among our bodies and our
thoughts.

Well,
how 'bout that? I try to be nice to the unseen nonexistent beings,
and this is the response I get!


What response did you get?


I don’t know!


Ohh.

That–
that’s the problem with the unseen ones, they’re also unheard and
unfelt. You know, I am thinking of having them arrested. Which,
considering that they don’t exist, is the same thing as actually
arresting them.

Uh,
but, but…there is a much greater danger to our town.


Right, the murderer.


The mayor asked me to issue the following statement:

Inside
every newborn child lives a tiny insect, which controls the child’s
movements. The insect only understands physical needs and basic
desires. That insect sits in its little chair pulling levers and
making the child grab and sleep and cry and eat. But one night, the
insect leaves its chair from inside the child, and it crawls out of
the child’s ear, and slithers away into the forest where it curls up
into a cocoon. Before it does this it whispers to the child, “You
are alone now.”

Years
later the cocoon hatches, and the insect emerges unchanged, and does
not miss the child at all. And that child, like all children, grows
up to be the president of the United States.


That’s the mayor’s statement on the murderer?


The mayor didn’t say anything about murderers. She didn’t actually
write that statement. She doesn’t even know I’m here! 


She’s off at that dinner theater thing.


Now…the murder mystery dinner theater, which is to, you know, stop
the murderer?


Great! So what do you need the mayor for? Who cares if my story is
unrelated to murderers? I– I don’t know why I was reminded of it
suddenly. What am I, some sort of expert on memory?

I
am. World-renowned.

The
point is, some people are worried about murderers. Others are worried
about other things. We all have our personal challenges. For
instance, I just found out that I can’t see cars.


You can’t see cars?


No! No! Apparently I have never been able to. My ornithologist keeps
trying different prescription lenses, but…every time I go near a
highway, I just see people with their legs and arms outstretched in
front of them zooming inches off the asphalt. I have always wondered
why other people didn’t find highways as hilarious and upsetting as I
do.


Did you mean optometrist? Because you said ornithologist.


I am 1/16th peregrine falcon on my father’s side! Cecil, what I came
to speak to you about today is the real danger to Night Vale:
indifference.


That doesn’t sound at all like what you came here to speak about.


I call upon the citizens of Night Vale to take pride in their civic
duties. Don’t let feelings of insignificance or ennui or excitement
when a dog jumps up on your legs distract you from your
responsibility to vote, to keep streets clean, to deny the existence
of angels, and to make holiday cookies for– for agents from a
Vague, Yet Menacing Government Agency who sit outside your home,
night after night, in stuffy black sedans, monitoring your dull
conversations and lives.


Okay, but what about the murders going on right now? It is not civic
indifference to be terrified of dying!


Agree to disagree. But listen, I’m speaking to anyone currently
killing someone: You alone are permitted to be totally indifferent.
Care less…especially about killing people. Uh, maybe care more
about after school programs. So, in conclusion, care about everything
in your town, except killing people.


Thank you very much, Pamela.


It’s 

! Just one
M! I’m going to use this water slide to go back to City Hall now.
Whee!


And now an update on last week’s power outages. The Night Vale
Electric Utility announced today that there may be more power outages
in coming weeks. This time, due to sadness.

“We’ve
just been sad this week,” the Electric Utility said. “Not for any
reason, just…sometimes we get sad. What do we need a reason for?
Last week we were feeling vengeful, so…power outages. This week
we’re feeling sad, and we’re going to continue expressing ourselves
through the medium of power outages.”

Now,
power outages were, of course, certified by the Supreme Court as a
protected form of free speech in the 1973 case of the Hayworth
Electric Company vs the Hayworth Hospital. And the court stated that
reasonable causes for a power outage include celebration of a special
someone’s birthday, expression of undirected anger at an intransigent
political system, and periods of just feeling sad for no reason.

But
the Night Vale Electric Utility would like me to remind you that
power outages are no excuse not to pay your electric bill. I mean,
electricity is, after all, a privilege, not a right. Failure to pay
your electric bill may result in localized lightning storms, shrouded
figures standing silently in the back of familiar TV shows, and gout.
So…

The
murder mystery dinner theater is still in full swing but frankly,
give or take a falling tub of socket wrenches, there seems not to be
much of a murder mystery left to solve. I mean, the murderer hasn’t
murdered anybody in quite a while.

Okay,
okay, sure, a bunch of murders did happen today. But that was, like,
several minutes ago! Maybe even a whole hour, and it just feels like,
I don’t know, why go digging through old dirt?

Plus,
I’m not even sure that we could charge anybody with those crimes. I
mean, the statue of limitations? You know, that statue of our own
limitations that we all carved last year? Just feels like, I don’t
know, we might be done here. Sorry to disappoint anybody that was
looking for the whole “mystery” side of things to be res–

Sorry,
listeners. I just…I thought I heard something. I mean, something
outside of the sound of my own voice and– and– and that small
nest of owls that’s kept in the corner of every radio studio. But
there shouldn’t be anybody here! Everyone has to be at the Rec
Center. It’s the law, and 


breaks the law! Nobody except…


law breakers!

Listeners,
I think the murderer may have taken advantage of the fact that all
citizens are at the Rec Center and they’ve crept over here to the
radio studio where I’m all by myself.

I
see movement in the dim of the control booth.

No
answer.

Nothing.
Just the sound of my own breath, in and out. Even as you are all
hearing my voice right now, I am alone. Or worse yet, I am 


alone.

A
footstep behind me. And another. And another. The sound of someone
walking toward me. The murderer is here at the radio studio. A shadow
reaches across my desk. The murderer is here for me, and I am
narrating my own demise!

Listeners,
there is only one thing left to do, but I must act quickly! I must
take all of you…to the weather.

[“

” by 

]

Hello,
Night Vale! Ahh! It is a relief to say those words aloud, alive, and
to you once again.

Just
after introducing the weather, I felt movement and I heard footsteps,
and I saw my life flash before my eyes and its imminent ending made
them water.

And
then, the murderer attacked, and I– and I could– I tried to
scream, but I could manage only faint gargles to no one. Well,
except, you know, one person, but it was like the person 


likely to provide me aid.

Fortunately,
I had a copy of Lois Lowry’s novel 

, which Tamika had loaned to me recently, and it was the
limited edition that comes without cover or pages or words, and is
made entirely out of wood and metal and is in the shape of a hammer.

It’s
actually just a hammer. Tamika loaned me a hammer.

Anyway,
unfortunately, uh, the hammer was just out of my reach so I stretched
out my hand, reaching, struggling, grasping for that classic of
contemporary children’s literature so I could crack the head of my
attacker.

And
that is when I heard a noise. And, listeners, I thought it was my
death rattle. Or my death chime. Or even rarer still, my death
trombone. But it was a shout. It was 


shouts. Two people.

And
then I felt warmth, and I felt air gasp into my chest, and– and I–
 I felt the hands upon me loosen, and I saw the two people who saved
me, and then they brought me here, now, to the Rec Center, here, with
all of you!

Well,
not 

 all of you,
but specifically…

.
The murderer.

Stand
up, please.

And
all the citizens of Night Vale pointed at the murderer and gasped!

And
they all shook their heads, not in anger, just in disbelief!

And
I asked the murderer, “Why?”

And
the murderer answered. But I just talked right over them because
anything they had to say was moot in light of their heinous crimes!

Now,
we all know that the murderer must be punished in the way that every
murderer is punished here in Night Vale.

And
the punishment is coming! Here it comes! Ah, the punishment is so
severe I can’t even look!

The
crowd all said to the murderer, “Please do not ever murder again!”

And
the murderer shrugged their shoulders and said, “Sure!”

Yeah,
and they applauded this former criminal for reforming their evil
ways. And all the citizens of Night Vale just let that tension relax
from their shoulders, happy to know that this person will
definitely…


never murder again.

Now,
of course, I have not forgotten about the two strangers, the two
heroes, that odd couple, that unlikely duo, those two that saved my
life back at the radio station. While all of Night Vale sat huddled
here in the Rec Center dreading murderers and actors and 


live theater!?, these two put their seemingly incompatible minds to
work, and one of them noticed that the murders had stopped, and
realized that the murderer must have left to find other people to
murder, but…who was left in town to murder?

And
the other one realized, it must be Cecil. For Cecil was by himself at
the radio station. He alone was alone. And so, without having to
exchange a word, with only a knowing glance, these two rushed to the
radio station and saved my life.

And
the danger was over, and– and the case was solved, and no one else
would die this day. Or, if they did, it would be because their body
just simply stopped, just like had an error and then they toppled
right over. But not because of anything as mundane as murder.

And
so the two strangers looked back to each other one last time,
unwavering in their eye contact. They had been through so much, and
they had seen each other through all of it. What luck they had in
picking a counterpart so competent and so trustworthy, and so
completely not a murderer!

So
they wink at each other. *Wink!*

Yeah,
but, like, big winks. *

*

Or
maybe they didn’t, I don’t know. You know, maybe for just one moment,
they just simply looked at each other with whatever faces, with
whatever feelings and emotions, with whatever moment that is 


moment, just their honest selves, for better or worse.

And
then they give each other a smile, and a thumbs up! Yeah! Like, a big
smile! With a lot of teeth! Like, an unnatural amount of teeth!

And
then they looked back at the stage, still smiling because these two,
you two had done it! These ex-strangers, these friends, these great,
these true, these investigators. You.

As
Shakespeare’s famous detective character, Veronica Mars, once said,
“All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women are frightened
people blackmailed into acting upon it.”

And
the evening turns to night. And soon, all of the citizens of Night
Vale will disperse back to their homes, and their hovels, and their
hideaways, and their witching caves.

But
for this one evening, we all came together. And what are human beings
but a coming together? What are we for, except to lean into those
around us, to balance against those around us. A– a– a delicate,
but provocative sculpture.

The
Night Vale murder mystery diner theater is over, sure, but what
happened within it will have always happened. We 


together this night! And we always will have.

Look…harm
can come from anywhere, or anyone. Whether it is a stranger, or a
friend, or one of those traffic intersections that has poisonous
snakes instead of traffic lights…but still, we reach out the hand.
Still, we allow our eyes to meet. Still, we hope for the best, and we
try to be the best in return because if not, then what else? If
not…then nothing.

A
human life…it’s just this. It’s a moment of eye contact in a crowd.

Stay
tuned next for tomorrow. By any means necessary.

Goodnight
to all of you listeners here.

And
goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.


Michelle Nguyen has dropped by the radio station, and she says that
she has a 


announcement. And like, could I just stop talking for a moment,
because she’s really trying to share an authentic part of herself,
like really, you know, connect, or whatever? And if you don’t
understand, it’s not important! Anyway, for more on that, please
welcome Michelle Nguyen!

 Hi, Cecil! Wait, am I on the
radio? 


Yes!
Thus the big Night Vale Community Radio sign outside, and the radio
equipment in here, and the fact that I constantly whisper “radio
radio radio radio” whenever I’m not on the microphone.


Ugh. I don’t listen to the radio anymore. Now, I’m all about
podcasts. They’re like radio, but you know, the future? 


I don’t
believe in the future.


Neither do I. Doesn’t matter, that’s totally not the point. The
point is that I’m here to announce Dark Owl Fest, Night Vale’s
first ever independent electro-witch-hop music festival.


Ooh!

Now
none of us have to travel to those big corporate witch-hop festivals
like Coachella or Croneroo. We’ll have the absolute best in this
obscure form of music that only I truly appreciate, right here in
town!

 That
sounds like fun, when is it? 


 Today,
right now. I rented out all of Mission Grove Park. It cost me six
months of Dark Owl Records’ income to organize this, which is why I’m
here. I had been planning on being the only person at the festival
because…you know how I feel about things that are popular.


You…hate them?

 No!
Ugh, everyone’s hating popular things these days! Anyway, it turns
out that I am in 

 financial trouble if I don’t sell a
bunch of tickets to this thing. So now I need everyone to head on
down to Mission Grove Park to buy tickets. I don’t know how much
tickets are, I wasn’t expecting to have to sell any. But if
everyone could just bring wads of cash to Mission Grove Park, and
give them to me please. It’ll be a fun day. Bring your kids! Tell
your kids to bring cash too! 


 Michelle,
this sounds like kind of a dangerous day to be doing this.

 Oh, I
don’t know.

 You
disagree?

 No, I
just don’t know. Sounds like you do though.

 Michelle,
don’t you know about the murderer?


Please, Cecil. I knew about The Murderer before anyone else. I have
all of their albums, even the five unreleased ones and the hundreds
of unrecorded ones.

 No, I mean
the dangerous criminal in our midst!

 Oh! If
you meant the Dangerous Criminal, then why didn’t you just say so?
Their take on pop punk rhymecore is so fresh! Wait, unless you like
them. Other people aren’t starting to like them, are they? Oh no,
why did I use the word “fresh”?

 Michelle,
there is a killer-

 The
Killers! Those sellouts? Like I get it, anyone can write an 18-minute
long experimental jazz song with a throat singing solo and get a
radio hit. It’s a simple formula. Wake me up when you’re ready to
make some art. 


 I give up.


I gave up a long time ago. Wait, what are you talking about? 


 Michelle,
there’s a dangerous murderer in town, people are being killed! I
mean, the Secret Police has ordered everyone to the Rec Center! It
would be dangerous to go to a music festival today. And also illegal.
Well, I mean it’s illegal to go a music festival any day, but today
it’s like, extra illegal.

 Cecil,
I think I might be broke. Even with the kind of serious money you
make from a record store these days…why did I think I could afford
to put on a huge music festival only for me? What if I lose the
store? Dark Owl Records is everything to me. I can’t lose it. I
can’t. I won’t. 

 


 Michelle?
Are you OK?


Oh, I’m doing just great. I just put on a music festival that is so
far out of the mainstream, 


will have seen it. Plus having money is so 2014. I’m not a sellout,
you know? I’m going to start an underground trade and barter
society based around leather work and old Morrissey records. I’ve
never been happier.

 OK! Well,
you should probably stroll on down to the Rec Center before you get
arrested for not being there.

 OK. Bye
Cecil. I hope you don’t get like, murdered, or whatever.

 All right.
Thank you so much, Michelle! 



Let’s have a look now at the Community Calendar.

Wednesday
evening, Night Vale’s most popular restaurant, Tourniquet, will be
hosting a special chef’s table dinner. To learn more about this, we
have Tourniquet’s sous-chef, Earl Harlan, right now on the phone
with us. Thanks for joining us, Earl!

 Thank you, Cecil! Well, the
annual chef’s table dinner is a special night, when our executive
chef, LaShawn Mason, personally curates and prepares a five-course
tasting menu. It’s 500 dollars prix fixe, and it’s limited to
only 13 attendees, so it will be an intimate and a unique experience.

Chef
Mason wants to share some brand new dishes he’s been working on in
his test kitchen. He hand-delivers each dish to the diners.



And then… he lingers…slowly over each diner, as they eat.
Explaining every single bite, as he touches their chins…gently with
his rough thumbs…and his soft…moist palms…lifting their
mandibles up and down…to help them through the first stage…of the
human digestive process. He also matches his heartbeat with theirs.
Everyone…at the chef’s table…will share a heartbeat.


That sounds very posh! 


 Have you ever listened to a heartbeat, Cecil?


Oh sure. Yeah, I can actually hear my own right now, very loudly in
my headphones, let’s see. Po-pom, po-pom,
po-pom-pom-pom-pom-po…Pom pom pom pom pom pom pom pom pom
popopopopopom,
pommmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.



 That sounds terrifying.


It is!

 Anyway, this year’s dinner
will center around quail. 



Ooh!

 Chef Mason recently
rediscovered the joy of quail meat, while on a spiritual retreat
underneath his own bed. He was there for weeks, curled into a fetal
position, alternating between screaming and crying, and clenching his
eyes and teeth tightly, because he is 


into meditation these days.

During
the retreat, he found several quail living in his box spring
mattress. And they were his only friends. He named them Ann, George,
Latimer, Kaska, and Junior, and Friday. They all kept each other
company in the cold dark night. And later when Chef Mason got hungry,
he ate them all. It was hard to lose such good friends. But they were
so delicious, he wanted to share that flavor with Night Vale.


So, will you be at the dinner, Earl?

 Oh yes! Yes, I will wake up
that morning, and I will stare at myself in the mirror repeating,
“You can do this, Earl. 

can
do this, Earl. You can 


this, Earl.” Until my reflection says, “You’re right.” And
then we’ll brush each others’ teeth, and trim each others’
mustaches, and comb each others’ hair…


Awwww!

 …and then step through the mirror and once again switch
places in each others’ mirrored world for the day.


Ah!

 I’ll drive my car slowly into the parking lot of
Tourniquet, and then I’ll call my son to tell him I love him. And
that I remembered his name, which I can do most days.


Oh!

 And then I’ll sigh heavily,
and I’ll put on my tuque and my jacket, and do my job. 



Well, it is such a blessing to have a career that you love! So, what
can the diners expect at this rare culinary event? 


 Well, we will start with quail salad with a fig and
orange milk dressing.


Mm!

 Followed by a large amount of quail eggs dropped from the
ceiling. Then pasta made entirely from beaks. 



Huh.

 Then the main course, in which I’ll use a bullhorn to
recite instructions for gutting and cleaning, while each diner is
given a live quail and a brick.


Ohhh! Mmmm! Oh, It says – your press release says that dinner
begins at 7:30. 


 7:30 PM on the dot! Now this is one of the coolest parts
of the whole night. It’s right at 7:30, when all of the diners from
last year’s event will finally be released from the kitchen…and
sent back to their old lives. 



Awww. Well that sounds fun. 


 Oh the sounds. There…are
so…many…sounds, Cecil. There are 


many things to hear…and to deal with. 



…Yes there are a lot of sounds, Earl. Um, thankfully my job is to
talk and not to listen. Um, it is great to have you on the show,
Earl. Let’s do this again soon, OK?

 Bye bye Cecil, talk to you soon.


Alright, bye Earl.


We are getting word that there may have been an eye witness to the
murder. Which is one of the top three witnesses, behind foot witness
and kidney witness. And we have the witness on the phone with us
right now. It is John Peters (you know, the farmer)! 


 Yeah, that’s me. 



Now John-


Oh, that’s me! 



Now you’re saying that you saw the murder take place. 



Absolutely!


Well tell us about it, what did you see? 



Well I was out my field this mornin’. I’m- I’m a farmer, you
know. 



Oh, I did not know that!


Really I feel like most people-


Yes, John, I know that you’re a farmer. 



Oh, ahaha! Ha, well I was out my field this mornin’, right, growin’
my imaginary corn, and I saw some movement on the edge of my vision.
Right in that point where seein’ becomes not seein’. And I
turned, and I saw…a great silver craft, disk-shaped with portholes
at regular intervals!


Now wait a second– 



Oh, there were bein’s inside, of astonishing structure, and they
were lookin’ out of the windows at me. I felt the hairs on the back
of my neck…with my hand, cause I’d put my hand on the back of my
neck in surprise. Those hairs are so soft back there, you ever…you
ever just think about the hairs on the back of your neck, Cecil?


Yes, constantly. 


But what does this have to do with the murderer and…?


Oh right right right right, well the craft landed and the bein’s
came out. They were of astonishing structure, and one of them, their
leader, said “Behold. My name is Klangor. We have arrived on your
Earth from some place distant.”


John…


Mm? 



Did you or did you not see a murder? 



These beings, they were of…astonishing structure. They took me into
their craft, and they showed me times and places far and along from
this here and ago. Did you know, Cecil, that the universe is not in
fact a single ever-expanding four-dimensional sphere of life and
matter? No, no Cecil! The universe, I have learned, is merely a
particle composed entirely of itself, and comprisin’ a greater
version of itself. A recursive function of its own body, repeated
like identical cells formed in the shape of that which each cell
physically expresses. You know I think of Benoit Mandelbrot’s
famous set of equations. Each iteration a repeated pattern,
psychedelic and vast. Our universe is not made of matter, nor time
nor space, Cecil. Our universe…is made of possibilities. 



So you saw…


useful or interesting at all?


Oh, oh! Oh, oh, yes. Then these beings placed me, childlike, back
down upon my Earth, and their craft sprang up into the air, leaving a
strange imaginary shape in my imaginary corn field. I held my hand up
in farewell…through the windows, I could see them hold
up…whatever it was they had at the end of their limbs. They were of
astonishing structure! And then…they were gone. I do not believe I
will ever be the same again. I do not believe I’m the same now.


Oh, John. I should have known that you were a farmer, not a witness!
This is why witnessing should be left to the professionals. Paid
witnesses, who will witness whatever crime you want for a nominal
fee. This is how witnessing should be done, not by – I’m sorry –
amateur citizens who might see incorrect things or repeat forbidden
truths.


Oh. I- I just really wanted to tell that story. I- I’m sorry I
couldn’t be of any help with the murder. Ever since this mornin’
I- I’ve just been too busy weepin’ in awe and transcendent grief
to witness anything at all! 



It’s OK, John. But please, next time only call if you have
something interesting you want to tell us. Goodbye, John.


Goodbye, thank you Cecil!


Mm hmm, absolutely. 



Computers. They seem difficult to use, right? Well, they 


very difficult. And heavily regulated. And also, deadly. I mean, I
personally don’t like that computers are just, people are just
allowed to have computers, you know without a prerequisite waiting
period. But for those times in which you inevitably give in to the
weakness of the human condition, we here at Night Vale Community
Radio are pleased to present…Computer Tips! With local computer
expert and programmer, Melony Pennington!

Welcome
to my show, Melony! 



Welcome to your show! Oh, I mean hi, hello. It turns out you welcomed
me, it doesn’t make sense to welcome you. Sorry, my mind was, you
know, the expanse. The vast. The out there. I mean my mind was
elsewhere. My mind was everywhere.


Wonderful! And how are you–


Do you ever look at the stars? The stars. You know, the stars. Not
each star, but some of the stars. I mean every single one of the
stars at once. I mean the whole night sky added up. Do you ever look
at the sum of the stars? The night sky, as an equation? Beauty as a
math problem? Which it is – everything beautiful is math.
Everything beautiful is a problem.

What
was your question?


Umm, how are you doing?


Oh. I’m fine.


Now…Melony, you sound familiar.


Do I sound familiar? You just said that, so I guess I do. You must
have met one of my programs…or not 

,
none of them are sentient. You can’t meet things that have no
sentience. Well, I guess you could be like, “Hi there, pile of
rocks, I’m Melony,” just to see what happens. I guess there is no
set dogma for social engagement.

God,
I wish I had a dog.

Have
you ever met a rock?

Also,
what was your name again?


Well I'm–


What I’m saying is that I probably sound familiar because all of my
programs have the same voice as me. That’s how computer programming
works.


Have you ever programmed a computer that broadcasts on a radio
station, specifically one that recites random numbers?

Melony:
Oh! Oh, yes! WZZZ! Yes, that was one of my early programs. And those
numbers and chimes aren’t random; they’re encoded messages to
foreign spies. Also a few pudding recipes and a funny cryptology poem
or two.


So you made Fey, the voice of WZZZ!


Oh, the WZZZ program had no name, and absolutely no sentience. Not
every program is sentient. That WZZZ program only recites numbers and
tones. That’s all it does, and all it ever will do.


But-


It doesn’t know it exists.


But I-


Oh, just listen to me babbling on! 


You had me on to talk computer tips, so let’s give your listeners
some computer tips. Ahem.

Tip
1: Computers can make you angry. Anything can make you angry.
Computers are anything.

Tip 2: Is your computer plugged in? That’s
illegal. It’s illegal to plug in your computer.

Tip 3, people:
Computer programs are a lot like humans. They’re full of bugs.
They’re mostly theoretical, and invented by overly caffeinated
lonely people in dark rooms. 

Tip
4: Did I say that thing about the
stars already?


Yes.


Oh, good.

Tip
5: The most secure password possible is (you’ll never guess this!):
where the O is replaced with a zero, and the Ls are replaced with
zeros, and all of the other letters are replaced with zeros. A string
of 19 zeros is the most secure password.


You know, sometimes I like to add an exclamation point at the end.


Oh, exclamation points are impossible to hack! You are very secure.

Tip
6: There are two main types of computers. The first are PCs, or
personal computers. Personal computers know your name, and things
about your life, and are casual and friendly. Sometimes they’re
overly personal and you end up having to say, “It’s, it’s just
too much! Back off, computer.” The second type of computer is the
house cat. These are ambulant robotic quadrupeds used by the Secret
Police to monitor our domestic behavior and try to understand why
people like to stroke robots and talk in high voices to them.


This has been so very helpful!


Ah! Thank you for saying that! I love to be helpful! Sometimes I
don’t feel so helpful. Sometimes I feel kind of useless and it gets
me down.


Aww. Well, I know that feeling. And hey, sometimes when I’m sad, I
like to sing old hymns to myself.


Me too! Which one’s your favorite?


♫ I got the eye of the tiger, a fighter ♫

 ♪
Dancin’ through the fire, 'cause I am a champion, and you’re
gonna hear me roar! ♪


That is my favorite passage from the Old Testament! Oh, I feel better
already.


Awww, thanks, Melony!


Oh, I’m sorry, I didn’t catch your name. Bye!


Oh, OK!


Ooh! Listeners! I have a really big surprise for you. We have the
return of our popular segment, Louie Blasko’s Music Moment. Now we
so rarely get this treat, as Louie long ago skipped town after he
burned down his insurance – he burned down his music shop for the
insurance money. And ever since then he has been singing catchy songs
and dwelling in the dreamscape of our children’s nightmares. And
I’ve got Louie joining us via the phone. Welcome to our show,
Louie! Um, where are you calling from? What exciting location are you
hiding out in these days? 


 Thank you for having me. 



Now what sort of musical lesson do you have for us today? 



Oh, well, today, I wanted to talk about the importance of warming up
your vocal chords. Um, I’m gonna show you all some– some simple
vocal warm-ups that you can use whenever you…First. Make a really
sad face at the sky. 

 Then sing a little scale,
like this: 

 

 



You know, I do that exact same warm-up before every show. I just
pretend that everything in my life has been taken from me, it really
helps get me in the mood. 



That’s a good approach, because everything we have either has
already been taken from us, or eventually will be.


And thinking about that really loosens up my vocal chords, and also I
start crying.


That’s good! Crying is your body’s way of telling you it’s
ready to make art. 



Mmm.


Now, another really good vocal warm-up is the tongue twister. 



Oh, I know so many of those! Um, like “red leather human leather
red leather human leather red leather human leather,” or the old
standard “she knells death bells deep beneath the sea floor.”


Those are certainly classics. But you know, here’s a little tongue
twister I often use. Ahem. 

 Cut! Cut! Cut
them! Cut them! Cut cut cut cut cut cut cut cut them! Cut cut carve
carve carve faces over their faces, cut! I didn’t see it, I didn’t
do it! Officer– Haha! No no, cut cu- I didn’t! 



That is a really good tongue twister! Catchy and fun and also kinda
tricky.

Now
Louie, what about when we’re not singing? I mean, do we still need
to do a vocal warm-up? I’m only asking because I was thinking about
taking up a musical instrument. Now, um, Carlos has been telling me
that I should get the ukulele, because it’s, you know, easy to
learn, and he says that I’d look really cute while playing it. But
I’ve been thinking about installing a pipe organ in our apartment,
and playing that instead.


Sure, you know there are warm-ups that you can, that will work on any
instrument. Here, I’m gonna show you some basic arpeggio scales,
for your ukulele or pipe organ or… 


Mm, hmm mm. Sounds like that warm up is really gonna get the blood
flowing!


So much blood. There is so much blood, Cecil.


Well, thank you for teaching us those warm-ups, Louie. I hope that
you’ll return.


Oh, I will return. I will return when you least expect it. 



How about we do the second Tuesday in November at 1 PM?


Perfect.


Excellent! Thank you so much, Louie!


So, with a murderer on the loose in our community, fingers are
starting to be pointed. And most notably they are being pointed at
Hiram McDaniels, a former mayoral candidate and literal five-headed
dragon…who attempted to murder our mayor not too long ago.

So,
in response, Hiram asked that he be allowed to speak on the air. And
so, please welcome the five striking charismatic (and criminal) heads
of Hiram McDaniels.

 Thank you, Cecil.


Now,
we’ve had some experience lately with the, uh, law, as it were.

 We face quite serious
charges with a maximum sentence of five life sentences, to be served
concurrently, by five different heads.

 That’s true, blue
head. And everyone is mad and yelling a lot, and it makes me feel
sad.

 

 Oh, sure, Green,
you’re right.

 Okay, okay. Blue,
Green, Gray, all of you relax. Now, remember what we said.

 The dragon heads
that stand together are strong together!


Oh, well that’s very inspiring, violet head!

 Also, the tree of
liberty must be refreshed from time to time with a mulch made from
the bones and organs of innocents!


Okay, now wait…what was that?

 What?


I– I mean, I just heard your violet head say that there is…

 No! Nope. Sure
didn’t.


Okay.

 Wouldn’t matter if
you did. What matters is that since our troubles with the law, we’ve
been practicin’ the art of disguise more. Previously we pretended to
be a human called Frank Chen. But now that everyone knows about the
Frank Chen disguise, we’ve come up with a new plan.

 We will disguise each
of our heads as a different head. No one will know with which of our
quintumbred they are speaking.

 For instance, which
head is this speaking?

 All of you are tiny
and sad, I’m also tiny and sad! Let’s all be tiny and sad together,
roar!


Well, that was the gray head.

 No, nah, nah, nah.
Listen to that rage, Cecil. Don't– don’t you think it was
the…green head, maybe? Eh? Green?


No, no, it was definitely the gray head, because I– I– I know,
because I– I 

 the
gray head talking.

 All right, all right.
But…all right. Which head is this?

 Oh! Everything is a
conspiracy, and I am untrusting of everyone! Look at how purple I am!

 I’m violet, not
purple!

 Right, right. 

Eh…Uhhh…Look at
how violet I am, which is a word that 


purple. Those are the same words, uhh, but I’m particular about which
one, look at me!

 See, now, uh…which
head said that?


Well, I– I mean, 


did, gold head! I mean – Hi– Hiram, I can see each of you
talking!

 He’s using his eyes
against us. We need to do a blind test.

 Yeah, that makes
sense.

 Indeed. Most
efficient would be a heated blade…

…but the eyes could
also be manually removed.


Uh, y– y– you know what? I’m just gonna turn my back, okay?

 Yes. I suppose that
also works. Now another head who is not me, the blue head, will
commence speaking.

 Life is sad, and I
am sad, and I won’t listen to what any other heads tell me about
regular exercise, or a few minutes spent outside occasionally. It is
I, the sad gray head.

 So? Which head was
speaking there?


You– I mean–  you– you didn’t even change your voice, like, at


, blue head.

 He’s peeking! He’s
peeking!


No, I mean, please don’t take this the wrong way – 


 Remove his eyes!


No! No no no no no no no! I mean, please don’t take this the wrong
way, but, I mean, not because you are a towering five-headed dragon,
but maybe, you know, you’re not terribly good at this.

 All right, then
Cecil. Uh…you might maybe be right about that.

 Maybe we don’t have
the proper technique and training for these kinds of charades.

 Maybe our
conspiracy is a failed one!

 Maybe we don’t feel
great about that.

 But then Cecil,
partner, you explain one thing to us.

 


Oh…oh my g– oh, well, Green, you are 


at those voices, then!

 


Yeah, r– Green is real good at all that stuff, it turns out. It’s
probably because Green is just naturally better than us at
everything– 


 Oh! Hey? Did you hear
that? That was Green head again. I didn’t say that last one.


It…it sounds…okay, it sounds like you two have a lot to work out.
So…good luck with that.

 


Oh, all right.


Listeners, I can see a slight movement in my periphery, and I can
feel just a gentle chilly touch along my neck. Oh, and also my coffee
mug has moved from where it was, I mean just a moment ago, it
was…it was here on my left. And now it’s upside down and on my
right and crawling away on spider legs. Which is kind of unusual…

 Hello Cecil. It’s me, the
Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home.


Hmm, I thought that was you! You know, it makes it kinda hard to talk
to you when I can never really see you.


Cecil, there’s a murderer on the loose, and everyone is going to
die. 



I doubt that the murderer is gonna kill 

.


Oh no, sorry for the confusion, those were two separate thoughts.
There’s a murderer on the loose, period. End of thought. Next:
Everyone’s going to die.


Well– 



End of second thought.


That’s a relief. Um…Hey, so you secretly live in every person’s
home, right? So you must know who the murderer is.


Oh, I absolutely know who the murderer is. 



Great! So you can help us track down and find this criminal? 



Sure, I’ll tell you what I know. The murderer has eaten hundreds of
flies in their sleep. The murderer has shirts with buttons, but I’ve
removed some of those buttons with an old knife I found in Pamela
Winchell’s mailbox. The murderer sometimes stares at birds.
Sometimes the birds stare back. Bird watching goes both ways.

Did
you know birds talk? Not through something so manipulative and
corroded by history as words and sentences, but through the clear
clean language of hunger and horror, and boredom, and rotary
productive desires. A chattering of starlings told me once, and I
quote, “Tree.” Then they said, “We’re in a tree.” They
repeated it over and over, and it was the most interesting story I’ve
ever heard.


OK, so do the birds know who the murderer is?


I was in Tristan Cortez’s house the other night and he couldn’t
find his remote. He just kept shouting, “Stop it! You’re the
worst!” at his television. And…


Okay…

I started to feel sad for him,
because it was that Property Brothers episode where they keep taking
out walls while lecturing the home buyers on the importance of an
open floor concept. They remove every single interior wall, and then
the outer walls of the home, and then the surrounding trees and
vehicles and other homes and adjacent buildings, until everything is
gone and all is void. And the closing credits of the episode are just
jumbles of letters drifting aimlessly on screen. To the whispers of,
“Open floor concept. Open floor concept.”


But what-


They 


jumped the shark with that episode. So out of pity, I revealed to
Tristan where I hid his remote.


But the murderer– 



It was just behind his right eye. It took him a while to get it out,
but he finally did it because I gave him Pamela’s old knife. Only
now his remote is all sticky and he has to get a new rug and couch.


OK, so is Tristan the murderer? I’m confused here.


We’re all murderers, Cecil! Where do you think meat comes from?


Oh uh, well meat… 



It sure doesn’t come from animals.


That’s…Wait, where 


meat come from?!


I didn’t finish my story. In conclusion, I know who the murderer
is. Everything will be fine. I’ll keep a close watch on the
situation. I won’t stop anything from happening, but I will watch
it closely. 



Well, Faceless Old Woman…

Well
listeners, it appears she’s gone.


Our municipal government is obviously concerned with today’s
emergency situation, and has asked me to give some time to my former
intern and our current mayor, Mayor Dana Cardinal. So let’s welcome
her now!


Thank you, Cecil.

Hello,
members of the public. Hello, day-pass members of the public. Hello,
invited guests of the public, junior initiates of the public, and of
course members of the secret orders, who are definitely not here and
not all waving enthusiastically and holding up invisible secret order
pennants in the front row.


Hmm. 


I speak to you today not as a mayor, but as a friend. So if
you’re not friends with me, sorry, this one isn’t for you. 



Go on.


I know that having a murderer on the loose is scary. It is
frightening to be reminded that you could die at any moment. It is
frightening to know that a member of your community holds evil in
their hearts. It is frightening when a mask-wearing employee of a
haunted house jumps out at you shouting “Boo!” Turbulence when
I’m flying also freaks me out. This is just a list of some things
that are frightening. Not all of them immediately apply. 


Cecil
was kind enough to give me some time on this microphone, because I
used my municipal powers to take this airtime, whether he wanted me
to or not. I rely on the kindness of others, but also if others
aren’t kind, I can take care of things myself.

Murder
is a rare threat in Night Vale. 


By
the way, have you ever noticed how “threat” and “treat” are
almost the same word? I have. I notice it a lot and that’s why I
wrote “threat” here in this speech, just to challenge myself to
say the correct word. Now I’m doubting that I said the right word.
I hope I said the right word. 


And
no one in town quite knows how to handle a murderer, so here is some
advice from murder experts that could help keep you safe. 


The
first step is to make yourself bigger than the murderer. Stand as
tall as you can, put on lots of layers of clothes and drink
embiggening potions to make yourself as large as you can possibly be.
The murderer will be less likely to attack if you have drunk many
potions, growing unnaturally until you resemble a skyscraper, or a
cliff base, or a very large person. 


Also
do not make eye contact with the murderer. That could be taken as a
sign of aggression. It is safest if you remove your eyes completely.
That may sound difficult, but actually the physical actions required
to do that are nightmarishly simple and horribly possible to do with
just your hands. 


Avoid
any sudden movements and certainly do not run. Running might cause
you to lose weight, and remember we’re trying to look bigger than
the murderer. 


The
murderer may just be attacking you defensively to protect their cubs.
If so, you may be able to prove you are not by threat by playing
dead, or by being murdered right away. Simply play dead or just go
ahead and get murdered. By appearing or being dead, the murderer will
not presume you to be dangerous, and thus will leave you alone. 


The
Night Vale City Government hopes that this information has been
helpful to you. I hope that this information has been helpful to you.
I care about you, all of you. I care about you, Cecil.


Thanks Dana, I…thank you for the advice. Um, it was, it was good to
speak to you again.


Oh you too, Cecil. I always like being on your show.


Yeah!


OK, I should go. I need to put on my mayoral cloak and then drink
some embiggening potions.


All right. Thank you, Mayor Cardinal. 



Listeners, do you hear that? There’s this strange noise. It’s
like…it’s like the lowest note on a piano. 

 No, that’s not it. It’s like
a short scale but using only the black keys. 

 No,
that’s not it either. I’m sorry. Oh! The noise is exactly similar
to…winter. 

Do
you hear that noise? It seems to be coming from my broadcasting
equipment. It– it seems like someone is trying to talk to me. It’s
like…It’s like someone is approaching the microphone, and is
about to speak.


Hi, friends! This is Kevin! Radio host of Desert Bluffs. Is this
Cecil of Night Vale? 



Mm-hmm. 



I’ve missed you, old friend! We hardly ever talk anymore!


Last time we talked, you were representing a giant corporation that
tried to enslave our town, so yes, good point. We hardly ever talk
anymore. 



We shouldn’t let small town feuds get in the way of our friendship.




No, we definitely should! Additionally, I do not like Desert Bluffs
sports teams.


Yes, sports rivalries are fun! They’re like friendships, but with
less sublimated anger and more ritualized shouting.


Now wait, Kevin, why are you interrupting my radio transmission? 



Well, I heard something. A noise. It sounded just like Zayn leaving
One Direction. 


Oh yes, there it is again. I heard the noise, and I ran to my radio
studio and, well here we are. What a strange thing, the happenstance
of the universe causing us to meet by chance again and again. Also, I
have a frequency jammer. I jammed your transmission, and that noise
is the sound it makes. So, that’s another element to the story. If
you believe in things like stories, or truth. I just wanted to see
how you were doing! Hi! How are you doing? 



Well, there’s a murderer on the loose in my city. And now there’s


 on the
loose in my headphones. 



Ha ha ha ha! You are one of the funniest people I know! I never quite
understand your jokes. That is why we’re such close friends!


Kevin, we are not friends! You tried to enslave our city, with…with
helicopters and armed guards and a smiling God! 



Oh sure, I remember all of that. But try to see it from my point of
view! I mean not literally. Not like, pull your eyes out and jam them
still bloody into my skull. 


We couldn’t do that, because we’re only talking via radio right
now. Let’s use a sports metaphor. Do you remember that famous game
between Desert Bluffs and Night Vale, where the officials made a
controversial interpretation of league rules?


Are we talking about football or…?


Oh, I don’t remember all the minor details. 



I mean, was the field shaped like a diamond or was it like
rectangular?


I remember everyone was wearing numbers. And right above the numbers
were big bar codes, to allow referees to track the players. So I
guess that could be any sport.


Ice? Was it on ice?


I don’t even know what ice is.


Alright, I guess that rules out basketball then.


The point is, Cecil, that people process the world the way their
peers process the world. Like that noise we heard before. I mean, I
heard it one way, you heard it another. For me, it was very similar
to the end of a multi-city national tour. 

 



But that’s just ridiculous! Clearly it sounds like the beginning of
another international tour. 


Exactly. But someone somewhere else might hear it differently. Those
people might hear it as subtle cinematic scoring underneath a
dramatic speech. 


See? We don’t care about the cosmic justice of the sports
officials’ judgment. We look to see if it favors our town or
society, and then we selfishly react.

Right
now, there’s a murderer on the loose in Night Vale, and you’re
worried because you care about your community. You fear for your
safety and the safety of those you love. But you only feel that way
because you are a potential victim of death or – much much worse –
a potential victim of loss. How do you think the murderer must feel?
Knowing that everyone is scared of and angry at them. I bet that
makes the murderer feel pretty bad about themself.


What??


I try to see things from both points of view. Every story has two
equal sides. Yes, there is a murderer on the loose, and murder is
illegal. But also, there’s a poor citizen, a human being (maybe)
who is being ostracized from society because of who they are and what
they like to do. That is equally sad. A sports team might win on a
bad call, but they might also lose on a good call. That is equally
unjust. A radio host might join a tyrannical corporation that tries
to subjugate all of Night Vale, but Night Vale might also fight back
illegally, unfairly forcing that radio host to lose his job. That is
equally tragic. 


I just wanted to tell you that…I feel no ill will between us over
the whole “armed takeover of your town” thing. 


I can’t really feel anything anymore. But I can smile. Smile very
wide. Want to hear? 



Definitely not! 



Oh, listen to my smile! 



Oh hey, the music totally stopped all of a sudden! 

 I bet that means you have to go
now. 



No, really it’s no bother, I’m having a delightful time!


Me too, me too! Hey, let’s try pushing this button that says
“frequency unjammer”!


Oh don’t push that, that doesn’t sound fun at all! 



And there we go.


It looks like I’m losing your signal! 

 Until next
time, Cecil, until next time!


An update on last week’s power outages. The Night Vale electric
utility announced today that there may be more power outages in
upcoming weeks. This time, due to…sadness. For more on this, we
turn to municipal call rep, Lacey Hernez. Hey, Lacey!

 Oh hello, Cecil!


So, uh, power outages, huh? 



Absolutely. And it makes sense. The electric utility has been sad
this week. Not for any reason, sometimes they get sad. And it’s not
fair to expect them to have a reason. For instance, last week they
were feeling vengeful, and so they got their revenge using the weapon
of power outages. This week, they’re feeling sad, so they’re
working through that using the medium of power outages.


But what about those of us who need electricity to see in the dark,
or maintain life support or most importantly, listen to the radio? 



Ah, well. You see, power outages were certified by the Supreme Court
as a protected form of free speech in the 1973 case of Hayworth
Electrical Company versus the Hayworth Hospital. You see, the court
stated very clearly that reasonable causes for a power outage include
celebration of a special someone’s birthday, expression of
undirected anger at an intransigent political system, and periods of
just feeling sad for no reason. And…and please remember:
disagreeing with someone’s speech, or even just frowning within a
48-hour period of them making it, is basically the same as repressing
it. It says so right in the Constitution.


Ooh well, fair enough.


Mm hmm, yeah.


Now Lacey, do you have any idea how long the power outages might
last? 



Oh, I don’t know. Couple days, couple weeks, I can’t say. The
electric company has a lot to work through. They don’t like to say
this themselves, but recently, the gas works stopped speaking to
them. No one knows exactly what the fallout was about, but electric
has been real down ever since.


Aww, that’s too bad. But you know what? I never thought the gas
works was very good for them anyway.


Oh, oh, I know, I agree! The gas works might seem nice if you just
eat lunch together sometimes, or hang out with them at a party once
in a while, or use their services to heat your home, but I don’t
think they’ve ever committed to caring about anyone. I once cooked
an entire meal on my gas range, only for gas works to not call or
text me for days after!


Ugh!

Did
that dinner not mean anything?


Ugh!


They didn’t deserve the electric company. 



Yeah!


Mm. Anyway, more importantly, the electric company is sad, because
sometimes utility companies just get sad. You can’t just say,
“Cheer up!” or “It’ll get better,” or “Please turn my
electricity back on!” and expect everything to be fine. They’ll
need some good, long power outages to work through this. 



Well, I am really sorry to hear that. Can…can you let me know…or
let them know that I’m thinking about them?


I sure will! That’s very kind. Now that I have you feeling
emotionally prostrate and vulnerable, please remember that power
outages are no excuse to not pay your electric bill. 



Really? Because it seems like– 



Electricity is a privilege, not a right. Failure to pay electric
bills may result in localized lightning storms, shrouded figures
standing silently in the background of familiar TV shows, and gout. 



Well, you could have just said “gout.” I mean, you didn’t have
to list all of its primary symptoms.


Well. Uh, it’s been nice chatting with you as always but I should
go. It looks like the water company–  

The Librarian - Live at Skirball


 If wishes were horses,those wishes would all run away, shrieking and bucking, terrified of a great unseen evil.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Construction crews are on hand at theNight Vale Public Library today to begin the renovations that were
approved last year by the City Council. Some of the improvements
planned for the library are a new children’s wing, something called a
“knife pit,” an upgraded computer room with several empty desks
and a loudspeaker that repeats “Technology ruins lives!” and,
most importantly, thicker plexiglass to protect citizens form the
librarians who were previously allowed to roam freely throughout the
building.

City Council said renovations have been
delayed for several months because it has been difficult to find
construction crews willing to work in such dangerous proximity to
librarians. But they finally found a very talented and brave crew to
conduct this project: Colston Contractors, Inc. The City Council is
asking that no one mention to any of the Colston workers that they
are working near librarians. They think that they’re building an
elaborate new Pinkberry.

The City Council then added,
“

,” and then they released a bunch of badgers
into City Hall – much to the delight of onlookers who thought that
the badgers were kittens. The onlookers were quickly and painfully
corrected in this matter.

More on this story as it develops but
first, today’s horoscopes.

Aries: Aries, you have much in common
with a tree. A sadness that no one can see, or understand.
Communication only through silence and wind. Skin made of wood. The
way you collect sustenance through roots buried in soil. You are
very, 

 much like a tree.
Almost impossible to tell the difference.

Taurus: Taurus,
today is the day that you change everything. Oh, I’m sorry. I
misspoke, I’m sorry. Uh, let me try that again, OK? 


Today is the day that everything changes you. You will be completely
unrecognizable. Yeah, that’s it. There ya go.

Gemini:
How scared are you of centipedes, Gemini? I mean, no reason. The
stars are just asking. Like, are you super 


scared, because I can’t say for sure, but you’re pretty brave, right?
Like, you could handle a couple of centipedes! You could handle a


 of centipedes!
Right, Gemini? No reason. I’m just asking.

Cancer:
Today is an excellent day for you to demand a promotion, to approach
the one that you’ve been secretly thinking about for years, to try
your hand at that new hobby that you are considering. Unfortunately,
it is a 

 day
for getting that promotion, having that person say yes, and not
injuring yourself badly on a power sander. But you should at least
feel great about the attempt.

Leo: There’s just a
thick, green smudge here, and the word “cryptotoxicology.” So I
guess that’s a good thing, right?

Virgo: Now, wait.
There are still some of you left? How did you survive the great
culling of Virgos that swept through – oh! You know what? I’m
sorry, that’s not ‘til 

 week. Sorry, I got confused there.
Oh, yeah, today looks very good for you, Virgo! Maybe use this lovely
day to get all your affairs in order. Just a thought.

Libra:
All your dreams will come true today. Or…I mean, one of them will.
You know that recurring dream where you’re chased through a house
that seems like your own, but it isn’t quite, by a swarm of bees that
you can’t see even though you totally know that they’re there? Well,
it’s not that recurring dream, it’s the other one. And I am so, so
sorry.

Scorpio: Your arms
look weird. And your face is a natural irritant. And your personality
leaves much to be desired, the principal desire being your immediate
absence. You disgust me, Steve Carlsbe–…I mean, Scorpios? Ugh.
Scorpios, right?

Sagittarius: Buy a
tourniquet. The best that money can buy.

Capricorn: Today’s
lucky number is imaginary! But, coincidentally, so are you, and your
entire experience of the world.

Aquarius: You wanna
make some money fast? I don’t know, rob somebody. Commit fraud.
There’s lots of ways.

Pieces: You’ve just
won another brand new car! You stare bleakly at your home filled with
stacks upon stacks of new cars, occupying every possible space at
impossible angles. Today’s brand new car is wheeled in and as you
feel its bulk pressing up against you, taking the last bit of your
home that had still been yours to live in, you feel tears hot upon
your cheeks. Congratulations on your prize!

Listeners, I have
just received word that there has been an accident at the library.
The intricate papier-mâché and balsa wood scaffolding has
collapsed. The Sheriff’s Secret Police have reported no serious
injuries from the accident, but they are saying that one of the dense
titanium and heavily-electrified cages containing a librarian was
damaged, and that that cage is now empty.

Night Vale, this is
terrible news. There is a librarian on the loose in our city. And
Night Vale, there is no triple-thick armored wall or bloody animal
carcass lying over a bamboo covered pit of sharp sticks to protect us
from this stalking oblivion. Without the military grade steel walls
of the library to keep the librarians contained, Night Vale, we are
helpless! We are doomed.

Watch your back,
Night Vale.

Oh! I almost
forgot. We have a new intern, and that’s always fun! So, let’s have
him introduce himself on the air.


Hello, I’m intern Andrew WK. Super excited about being here. Was a
long waiting list when I signed up, had to wait, I don’t know, three
days until the other interns had…left the station, but my name is
up on top now!


Yeah! Well, we are just thrilled to have you here.


I look forward to a long and healthy life in radio.


Say, um, Andrew, what do you know about librarians?


Librarians…oh no. When I was young, my mother used to work in the
coal mines before they were converted into the holding pens that they
are for those who vote incorrectly in the municipal elections. She
went out to work each day, miner’s helmet under her arm, pig slung
over one shoulder, fencing sword tucked into her belt, and bloodied
axe across her back – the usual miner’s get-up – and she would
descend into the dark with her fellow workers seeking out coal or the
tiny valuable hearts of rare bats.


OK, so fantastic! What I’m gonna need you to do– 



My mother saw terrible things down there in the dark. Hazy, feathered
things swarming, weeping things. Gawping, gasping things with claws
and spokes and stingers and more claws! Day in and day out, this was
her job! Mining coal and fighting the denzions 


of the dark downwards for their hearts. When she came home she’d be
covered in coal dust and lymph.

My mother was never
afraid, though. Nothing phased her. Except for the day I had to get a
book from the library for a school science project. She insisted on
going ahead of me to clear the way, but after a few minutes she came
out shaking, pale, her fencing sword all bent, her axe broken in
half. “Run!” she shouted, “Run!”

Librarians are
feared even by the fearless.

But I did get a B
on the project!


Oh, that’s good! And– and that was a very well-told story. Um,
also, I need you just to…run on down to the library, and just do a
little bit of research on librarians.


To the library.


Yeah! Yeah, good luck. You’ll be fine. He’ll be fine! Yeah. Well, I
can’t wait to hear what intern Andrew comes up with!

Listeners, we are
already getting reports from all over town about the escaped
librarian. Liesel Schmidd, who owns the auto body shop near Somerset
and Gray said she heard whispers. And the whispers sounded as if they
were coming from just next to her.

“

And the whispers
echoed off the closed garage doors of the vast, empty workshop. And
Liesel said with each question, a halogen work light would fade to
black, her auto body shop slowly darkening until the whispers were
all she could see. And yes, somehow she could see them. Until the
final question.

“

And the last light
exploded, and the room went black. And before she could even start
the usual process of panic, Liesel felt – and here she is, alone,
in the dark – a small hand slide, slowly, into her own. And Liesel
tried to pull away, but this childlike hand kept sliding further and
further into her palm, and the childlike hand was thick, serpentine,
enlarging continually and wrapping around her wrist and then her
forearm, and she felt the sharp pierce of what seemed like blades,
but were likely just the rigid caudal spine common on most
librarians.

And Liesel tried to
scream, but she could only gasp. And she gasped through a clenched
throat and bared teeth, “Please! Please, let me be! I– I– I
have a family!” And it was the possession of this family that saved
her, as her business partner and sister, Pica, having just arrived,
fired a blowtorch at the book-loving monster, and it slitheringly
scurried and scurriedly slithered away.

Listeners, I have
also received word from Green Market Board president Tristan Cortes
that he cannot stop feeling his own heart beating. And he feels it
throughout his entire body, and it feels like there is an enormous
engine buried in the earth beneath him, shaking the very foundations
of the land, but it is not an enormous engine, it is a heart. And it
is actually so fragile, and so small, and there is…something just
on the other side of the front door, he said.

And it is
breathing.

And he is
breathing.

And he
cannot bring himself to look outside. He knows who it is. He knows


 it is.

And
his heart is reacting as any heart would in the presence of a
librarian, the rhythm of his own liquid life pulses through his
tongue and his lips, throbbing and impossible to ignore, and he can
feel it in his feet as he tries to stand still, and he can feel it in
his chest as he tries to yell over the din of his pulse, the 

ing
of his heart, and finally he manages one terrified shout into the
cool morning air. And Tristan could not say for sure that it was a
librarian on the other side of the door, but he did say that he could
smell that familiar librarian odor of burnt coffee during a sinus
infection.

And he
also said that after the beast left, the day’s mail had appeared on
the front porch. So…it could have just been a 

postal worker.

And now, a word
from our sponsors.

Today’s show is
brought to you by American Express. I have with me a representative
from American Express in the studio, here to tell you all about this
amazing card’s many features. The representative is just a slight
haze in the air, and her name is Deb!

Deb?


Thanks, Cecil.

Hello, listeners
out there. I think I speak for all American Express employees, and
also for all sentient patches of haze, when I say that I am just
thrilled about the new American Express Obsidian Card.


Ohhh! Well, that sounds very exclusive! I'm– haha, I’m actually
still using the same AMEX that I got in college, um…it’s just a
Post-it note, and it has “Real American Express Card” written on
it, and a drawing of a thumbs-up. And I trust this card completely
although, admittedly, I have yet to find a merchant that will
actually accept it.


Well, the new Obsidian Card will solve all of your problems. It’s
accepted worldwide by any merchant that keeps their store dimly lit,
and lingers sadly all day on memories of lost loved ones. It’s easy –
if you hear crying, then your card is welcome.


Oh!


And the benefits are better than ever! The Obsidian Card features
full purchase protection, extended warranty on electronics, a
deathless hunger that can never be sated by mere carnal appetite, and
the quiet loss of one part of your body every month. We don’t tell
you which part. It’s a surprise.

It also gives you
points for airlines. Or it points at the nearest airplane if you put
it on a flat surface, I don’t remember which.


Well, that sounds really great!


I don’t care what it sounds like.


Oh.


It’s already in your wallet now. It’s in the wallet of all your
listeners. It has 


the wallet of all your listeners. Many objects in their home will now
be replaced by the American Express Obsidian Card. Everything they
touch will turn into a black volcanic stone credit card. They will
accidentally kill people. People they care about. And whose only
crime was being touched by the cursed listener.

American Express.
Don’t leave home.


Wow! What a great product and/or service! You know, I try not to
listen to or remember what anybody says to me? Taking in knowledge
can be a super dangerous thing to do.

Speaking of danger,
the librarian was just seen near the Dog Park. The long-taloned
creature with its many round black eyes and hairy brown teeth was
seen scaling the Dog Park fence. City Council has warned us many
times that the Dog Park is off limits, that dogs are not allowed in
the Dog Park. That people are not allowed in the Dog Park. That we
may see Hooded Figures in the Dog Park.

Well, witnesses
said that as the librarian approached the Dog Park fence, the Hooded
Figures all ran away, in different directions, their cloaks
fluttering in a wind of motion, revealing matching black and white
Nike tennis shoes.

But,
before the librarian could enter the Dog Park, a small band of masked
children showed up, holding slingshots and well-worn copies of Chinua
Achebe’s critically-acclaimed post-fatalist novel 

. By
all accounts, this was the same group of fifth through eighth graders
who bravely escaped last year’s Summer Reading Program at the Night
Vale Public Library.

The leader of that
escape, 13 year-old Tamika Flynn, was with the group of kids at the
Dog Park trying to back the librarian down from the fence. As a small
boy blew a low, long tone on a conch shell, Tamika held aloft the
severed head of the librarian she defeated last summer (still
surprisingly well preserved) as a gruesome warning for the librarian
currently terrorizing the forbidden municipal park.

Witnesses said that
the librarian shrieked meekly, and leapt form the fence as the
children chased after it shouting suggested additions to the
library’s fiction stock.

“

!”
came one shout.

“


is a cornerstone of
new western literature!” came another cry.

“I
have never read 

,
I hope you add her!” came a final call as slingshotted rockes
plunked hard off the retreating librarian’s exoskeleton.

Tamika then spoke.
We have her actual speech, because we are all being recorded at all
times by several different organizations, and of course, amateur
community spying clubs. Here now is Tamika Flynn’s statement:


People of Night Vale, we are your children. We are your children who
survived the librarians. We are your children who defeated StrexCorp.
We are your children who learned the power of books. The power of
books is that they teach you how to destroy what is, but should not
be. The power of books is that they show you what it might be like to
think as someone other than this person you are stuck being. The
power of books is poisonous gases and spring traps.

Nothing
is more powerful than a book. A larger book is slightly more powerful
than a smaller book, because it can also be used to hit your enemies.
Smaller paperbacks are terrible for that. Take it from me, I’ve
tried. 


might be a classic of Russian literature, but it is useless against
the hide of a librarian – even when launched with a homemade book
launcher. This is why Vladimir Nabokov’s famous
translation added
several thousand blank pages and a carbon steel bullet-shaped duff
jacket.

But your physical
stature is unrelated to your strength. You are strong because you are
many. You are strong because you are in this together. You are strong
because of that weird rain that gave many of you double-quick hand
combat reflexes and seventh eyes. You are strong because, if enough
people believe in their own power, even if armed only with mass
market paperbacks, they can bring down not just a librarian, but an
entire corporatic regime!

As for us, your
army of missing children, we are not missing. We are found!

Here
is our plan, Night Vale. We will give up. We will lay down our arms
and quit fighting. We will close our eyes and sleep. Yes, that is
what we will do. Once we have crushed every enemy in our path! Once
we are victorious and bathed in blood, and placing stickers on
reading levels far beyond our ages! Reading levels that are yet to be
discovered! Pizza reading rewards in quantities and kinds that are
unimaginable to the unenlightened!

As Indira Gandhi
once said, “you cannot shake hands with a mangled fist that has
been chewed up by an unchained librarian.”

You are not alone.
You were never alone. We will advance on the librarians together.
Believe in us, Night Vale. We will exist either way, but you might as
well.

You might as well.


Unfortunately, witnesses were too shaken to see where the librarian
disappeared to.

Listeners, I urge
you to follow Tamika’s example of strength and courage. Be brave,
like Tamika!

But do so indoors,
yeah? Keep your homes locked, and listen here for further
instructions.

But now, let’s have
a look at the Community Calendar.

This Thursday
afternoon at the Rec Center is the Sheriff’s Secret Police’s
semiannual gun buy-back program. If you have an illegal or
unregistered gun, bring it to the Rec Center, and the Secret Police
will buy it from you with full amnesty, no questions asked.

A
Secret Police representative said it’d be “

” if you had
fully-automatic rifles and some hand grenades. “Like, 

” she repeated, here eyes
darting about, her knuckles rhythmically cracking. “Also,” she
added, “

”

There is an event
this Thursday night at Dark Owl Records. For more on that, we have
owner Michele Nguyen on the phone.

Umm, Michelle?


Hi, Cecil!


Welcome to our show, Michelle!


Am I…on a podcast?


No. This is my radio show.


Oh. Good. Podcasts are dead. I hate podcasts.


Hm. So, Michelle, I got a press release saying that you have a
special event this Thursday at Dark Owl Records.


I wish I hadn’t sent that out. I didn’t want anyone to know about it.


It doesn’t actually say what the event is; it just says “Dark Owl
Records, this Thursday night, you probably wouldn’t understand and
probably won’t be invited.”


So, this Thursday night, the Dark Owl staff and I are going to try to
discover fire. It’s a private event and I’ve ordered them never to
tell anybody what we find out because if everyone knows how to make
fire, then everyone will start talking about how to make fire, and
then people will be making fire all the time. And suddenly making
fire won’t mean anything. We will no longer feel what it means to
create flames. We will no longer cry under the glimmering orange lamp
of nature’s most cruel and useful force.

If
everyone loves making fire, then how can we truly know what it even
means to feel heat, or light a scented candle, or fry an egg, or take
revenge on your own diary?


Not to be a spoil-sport here, Michelle, um, but fire was discovered a
long time ago.


I know that! Fire’s been around for 

.
Blah blah blah, history, blah blah. But it’s important that my staff
and I discover it for ourselves.


Hmm.


It’s like Bono said, moments before he died: “It’s all been a lie,
and I wish I had been more aware.”


Oh. Well, it sounds like a cool event.


Please don’t ruin it with adjectives.


Well, it sounds like an event. Um, Michelle, I don’t know if you’ve
heard the news today about the escaped librarian.


I found out about the escaped librarian years ago, from this
underground magazine called Füteür.


Futeur?

Füteür,
with two umlauts.


Oh, OK. Well I’ve never heard of Füteür.


Of course you haven’t. The only way to get a copy is to walk to the
middle of the Whispering Forest. The trees there will try to lure you
into becoming one of them by complementing your outfit and physical
appearance. But I’m immune to positive feedback. So I’m one of the
only people who can walk through there.

My friend Richard
is a tree there now. He used to intern here.


Yeah!


He wanted me to tell you hi, and you have a nice voice.


Oh, that’s so nice!


You have an OK voice. I guess. Richard’s the one who told me about
the magazine. In order to read it you have to climb this one tree,
this creepy seeder named Redge, who appreciates my hats way too much.

At the top of Redge
is a plastic magazine kiosk that’s covered with band stickers and
misspelled cuss words.  Füteür Magazine comes out weekly, and it
tells you news, all before it happens, insuring that I never have to
have my parents or someone over 30 tell me something I didn’t already
know.

So, yes. I knew
about the escaped librarian well before anyone else.


So, what happens? I mean, did Füteür explain how we were able to
save our town or if, 


we were able to save our town?


Probably. I don’t remember. It wasn’t very interesting. There was a
review of an Amanda Palmer album that comes out in eight years. I
read that instead.

Anyway, I’m covered
in spiders, so…know that.


Oh my gosh! I’m so sorry! Please, go call an exterminator right now!


No! The spiders are my outfit, Cecil! I’m not going to kill them!


OK. Um, well, thank you very much, Michelle.

Uh, listeners, this
Thursday night at Dark Owl Record, Michelle and her staff will try to
discover fire.


Please stop knowing this.


So, before you go Michelle, do you have any special approaches or
techniques you’re going to use to discover fire for yourselves?


We’re going to use simple elements, like cigarette lighters and
gasoline. I gotta go. My hat is crawling down my back.


OK! Thank you very much, Michelle!

More on the
Community Calendar:

This Friday night,
all lanes of Route 800 will be shut down in both directions as work
crews stand in the middle of the empty, dark highway, repeating
“Bloody Mary!” three times, just so we can settle this thing once
and for all!

Oh! Saturday
afternoon on the great lawn near City Hall is the annual Children’s
Fair! There will be face painting booths, street food, balloon
animals, real animals, hungry animals, feral wild animals that fear
no humans. Children and adults are prohibited from attending until
they get all of these animals under control.

Saturday night is
the PTA’s annual fundraiser benefit. With more on that, let’s go now
to PTA treasurer, Diane Creighton, who is on the phone with us right
now.

Uh, Hi, Diane?

Diane?


Yeah, hi!


No!


Yeah, yeah, uh, hi, it’s uh…


No, no, no, no, no!


Diane couldn’t be here, so, you know, uh, so it’s me, Steve
Carlsberg. Secretary-elect of the Night Vale PTA.


I was told it would be Diane Creighton!


Well, uh, Diane has a minor case of throat spiders, so she asked me
to fill in for her.


I’m sure she did not, Steve Carlsberg! But fine. Fine. Tell us about
your idiotic 

…Tell
us about your fundraiser.


OK! Thank you, Cecil! 


This
year, the Night Vale PTA is raising money to increase the number of
school clubs. Studies show that children who get involved in
extra-curricular organizations – especially kids who take on
leadership roles – are more likely to graduate college! In the
coming year, we wanna be able to fund a glee club, a drama club, a
chess club, a pyrokinesis club, an blood stone circle prayer society,
a speechless debate club, and an armed political insurgency club.


What about a science club?


Oh, uh, why would we want a science club?


Because science is important, 


We need science! Kids should learn science! It helps them… It–
it’s very good for them when they need to– 



Wha– Wh– What does it– How does it help them, Cecil? What does
it help them do?


I don’t know. Something. Something good. Science is good. I like
science. Science is good for all of us.


Alright, well, most parents don’t believe in science, Cecil, so you
know, I–  I doubt it would have much support, but tell you what,
I’ll see what I can do.


OK, fine. So, when is your stupid 


What is your event going to be like?


Oh, glad you asked. Saturday’s benefit will feature a seated dinner,
a silent auction, a live auction, a secret underground auction, two
fake diversionary auctions, and a raffle drawing where we hunt,
capture, and clean the winner.


Well, great. That is all the time we have today…


Sorry, Cecil! Cecil, sorry! Can I just add that tickets for the
benefit are still available online! Ha-ha-ha! They’re only fifty
dollars, or you can pay at the door. It’s gonna be held at the Rec
Center. You just go past the auditorium and you look for the door.


It’s not a door you’ve seen before, but you will know it when you see
it. Go through that door, and then continue through a series of
increasingly smaller doors, as it becomes harder and harder to
squeeze your shoulders, and then your chest and hips, into the
increasingly dark and quiet crawlspace. Then just when you think you
will become stuck, you will become stuck. And all will go silent, and
you will hear nothing except something feathered, and you will feel
nothing except something feathered. And you will not be heard from
again.


That sounds like fun!


It will be! It’s gonna be great! Super blast! Super blast good time!
Ha-ha-ha!


OK, whatever. You know I was just humming to myself until you stopped
talking.


OK, well, can I just say one more thing?


OK, ha-ha-ha!


Hmmm. Where were we, listeners? Oh, yes. Community Calendar.


Sunday morning, the Night Vale Junior League will be opening the one
hundred year time capsule that was buried there by disgruntled Subway
employees all the way back in 1915. And it is just so exciting to see
what kinds of bread and cold cuts that have been buried in that
little cardboard box for an entire century! And we are all certain to
learn a lot…and then forget it, only to have it resurface subtly
couched in horrifying Jungian dream imagery for the rest of our
lives. Because that is how time works, hmm?


Monday would like for you to leave it alone. It is not its fault that
you are emotionally unprepared for your own professional lives! Mmm,
mmm, mmm, mmm, mmm.

How
are you doing right now, dear listeners? No? Are you…afraid? I
would like to tell you that I am 


afraid. Um, I would like to be strong in the face of imminent death,
Night Vale. I am, after all, the voice of a community, and I must be
neutral. Impassive. Just…simply reporting the news. I would like to
feel something resembling confidence.

But,
I am feeling something resembling petrified terror! I am very similar
to a scared person. The City Council has just announced that…dear
listeners, I– I– I– I do not know how to tell you this,
but…the City Council has just announced that 


of the librarians have escaped.

Night
Vale, we do not yet know how many librarians there are, or what
exactly they are capable of. We were already too scared to read or
even 


about good literature, and now even our own book-free personal space
will be invaded by these monsters!


Like the great American writer Mark Twain once said, “Readin’ is
hardly worth all this bloodshed. That is why all my novels are wadded
up candy stall receipts that I leave on park benches. They should
never be put in libraries, even after I die – in the next few
minutes, at the hands of this drunk Minotaur standin’ in my parlor
right now.”


Now, Mark Twain was wise enough to know that libraries are a bad
idea. Listeners, I’m gonna call my boyfriend Carlos just to…just to
see what he thinks. I mean, I know, I know, he’s only a scientist,
but he might have some good ideas about how to handle these unholy
beasts.


Hello?


Hey, Carlos. Uh, it’s me. I'm– I'm– I’m calling you from the
show.


Oh, hey! Yeah, I was listening earlier, um, but I got distracted
with, um, uh, with work… Yeah, I’m…I’m standing in front of a row
of beakers, with different colored liquids, intermittently rubbing my
chin and writing down long, complex, equations. And there is a giant
computer next to me, too, with several blinking buttons.


Well, you’re obviously…hard…at work. Hard at work. And I…and I
really hate to bother you. No, wait! How are you able to listen to my
radio show from an alternate desert otherworld?


Oh, I…I just reprogrammed my phone using some basic scientific
laws, and now I can actually livestream your radio station! Yeah,
so…so time doesn’t work correctly in Night Vale, and it works
actually even less correctly here, so sometimes I get old broadcasts
from before we met, and once I heard a future broadcast but I turned
that off as soon as I realized what was happening, because you know,
some thing just aren’t meant to be known.


Anyway, so I heard that you announced that there’s a new wing of the
library opening, that’s exciting!


No! No! No, that is not exciting! Well, actually, technically, yes it



exciting, but it’s like, the 


exciting! There are escaped librarians on the loose and…listen,
this is one of the few times that I am glad that you are in an
alternate dimension. At least, there, you are safe from bloodthirsty
librarians.


Why would we need to be afraid of librarians? Librarians are helpful
and kind! I mean, I don’t want to generalize about all librarians,
you know, certainly there are some mean librarians, just as there are
some mean people, I mean…just as there are helpful and kind
librarians and people. They are no different than any of us!


So, I myself have never actually met a librarian. Yeah, I, uh, since
I am a scientist and not a writer or an editor, I’ve never actually
had to read a book.


Oh!


Yeah, and thus, um, yeah. And– and– and have never actually been
inside a library. Uh, but, but I had friends in college who were
literature or journalism majors, and they told me that librarians did
things like…help recommend good books, and find important
information related to their interests, and nearly all of my friends
that have visited a library are still alive.


A little over half.


Anyway, I don’t see what the panic is about!


No, Carlos, listen to yourself. This is…this is insane!


Perhaps, you know, Cecil, but…as the great mathematician Albert
Einstein once said, “the definition of insanity is available inside
this cave. Come inside this cave. Come inside this cave and the
definition will be told to you, it is so nice inside this cave.”


True. No, Carlos, even though there are no librarians where you are,
I want you to be safe. Or, better yet, come home soon.


I’ll see you again soon. I promise.


I– I don’t know what to do with myself without you. I love you.


I love you too. And, you know, Cecil, I’ll be fine. I’m a scientist.
A scientist is always fine.


Well, listeners, I have to say, I certainly feel better having talked
to Carlos…even though I have learned absolutely nothing new about
the escaped librarians.


So, Night Vale, all I can tell you is to board up your doors and
windows, turn out the lights, and– and do not answer your door for
any reason. We do not yet know how long we must hide ourselves.


And you must continue to live your lives. But, do so in a way that
draws no attention, that requires no light, or motion. J– Shut down
your lives, dear listeners, for fear of losing them. Just remove all
semblance of living to prolong, for a few more moments, that empty
life.


Be safe, Night Vale. And I will do my best to keep bringing you the
news.


Hello, Cecil?


Intern Andrew? Well, it’s wonderful to hear from you again. Are
you…are you at the library?


Uh, yes. I have found my way into the library, it’s very dark in
here. The construction crew is standing over the collapsed
scaffolding, poking at it with sticks and ordering it to put itself
back together again. Their antennae are in the non-aggressive
position, so I don’t think they realize the danger they’re in.


OK. Be careful, Andrew, but also…be closer to the story. Be much
closer and tell all of us what you see.


Uh, well, I’m walking between the shelves, there are books all around
me. I don’t feel safe around so many books. There are small wallows
here and there where librarians have nested for the night. Some of
these look quite fresh.


OK, move quietly. There could still be a librarian somewhere.


There is! There is a librarian! OK, it’s seen me. It has me trapped
in the biography section. There are so many books here about Helen
Hunt. I have no choice, I’m gonna have to fight my way out of this.


No! No, you would never survive. Just pretend that you don’t exist
and hope that the librarian shares your delusion.


It’s too late. It’s too late. I have my fencing sword in my hand. Say
goodbye to my mother. Wherever she’s buried herself after the mine
closed, I’m gonna do her proud.


OK, I will definitely find– 



And say goodbye to my best friend Johann and my second-best friend
Jamie, and my tied-for-third best friends Xerxes and Hasad. Wish them
well on their artisanal upholstery business. Cover those chairs, my
sweetest friends. Cover those chairs.


Ok, I will…I will do that…


And say goodbye to the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in My
Home. I don’t know what I would have done without her. Well, probably
most of the same things I always did because I didn’t know she was
there until she started running for mayor, and now I’m not clear how
she’s secretly living 

.
I mean, how is it a secret at this point?


Huh.


Yeah, ask her that.


All right.


And–  and– and kind of smirk while you ask her.


Oh.


Like, lean back, you know, cross your arms a little bit.


Like…


More…


Rrrrr…


OK, great.


Rrr….


So…so do that. Do that for me.


OK, I wi– I will do all of those things.


Wait! And say goodbye to Cecil.


What?

Tell
him his voice is like swimming in a clear, cold underground river.


No, 


Cecil!


Just tell him for me!


All right, I’m going in. This will be a perilous and lengthy
struggle. We’ll be intertwined in a gruesome embrace until one of us
dies. Maybe hours from now, maybe days.


For Night Vale!


Aaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhh!


To the family of intern Andrew WK: He was a brave intern…although
not very knowledgeable about fencing swords and their complete
inability to cut 


flesh, let alone librarian exoskeletons.


And now, a public service announcement.

The
Greater Night Vale Medical Community is calling on all citizens to
please, give blood. There are always patients, unfortunate people,
who need your help. Sometimes there is a great natural disaster, like
an earthquake or tornado, or even a great 


disaster, like scissor fog. But do not wait for these moments to give
blood. Doctors need it every single day.


Never given blood before? It’s easy. The Greater Night Vale Medical
Community knows that many of you are afraid of needles. But there are
so many non-needle ways to get your blood: court injunction,
satellites, wolverines, a very carefully-staged “accident…” so
please, put aside your rational fear of needles and pain and give
blood.


This message has been brought to you by the Greater Night Vale
Medical Community, which…


OK, this is weird. Listen, I’m sorry, but I said that I would ask.


The Greater Night Vale Medical Community wanted me to tell you that
they think that you are cute, and are you seeing anybody right now?
Because, listen, I told them that you were, so that way there’s no
pressure on you, OK? But they still wanted me to ask, and they were
very persistent.


You know what? No. It’s cool, I’ll tell them that you are seeing
somebody, so there are no worries.


Listeners, I’m starting to doubt if I’m as alone as I thought in this
studio. Um, I thought it was only me, and the monitoring cameras, and
the cameras that monitor the monitoring cameras…but I’m beginning
to feel something else. See something else. It’s…I’m seeing…


Cecil?


Aahhhh! I think I know who this is!


Yes, it’s me. The Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home.


Of course. It is former mayoral candidate and hidden lurker watching
all of us at all times, the Faceless Old Woman. Um, well, it’s lovely
to have you here.


I am not a former candidate. I do not accept the results of the
mayoral race, and I still consider myself your best choice for mayor.
I wanted to make myself known to you and your listeners in this time
of crisis to show how mayoral I am. It is very mayoral to stand near
disasters. I am very good at standing near things.


I am less good at being seen, but I am working on that using a system
of whistles and mirrors.


Huh. Mirrors.


Well, let’s talk about this. What would you, as presumptive mayor,
have done differently with this librarian situation?


Oh, many things. Mayoral things. Profound and effective things. I
would have stood in the corners of dark rooms, shaking my head in
disappointment. I would have taken the uneaten lettuce from your
crisper and stapled it to your couch cushions. I would have filled
every dresser drawer with damp autumn leaves and uneasy dreams.


Hmm.


I would have written the date of your death in blue highlighter on
all of your shoes. There’s a lot you can do as mayor if you just stop
and think. If you just stop all time, and think for centuries on a
problem while linear progression ceases and you continue to age on a
separate plane of existence.


And all of this would help get rid of the librarians on the loose in
Night Vale?


What? Oh, no, I don’t care about that. That was just a list of things
I would do regardless of intentions or consequences.


Librarians are pretty awful, but I can always hide. I live secretly
in your home, not obstreperously like the rest of you, chewing loudly
and playing brass instruments and stomping around in thick boots
through a haze of television chatter and sublimated sadness.


Also, stop being so self conscious about your weight. Your shirts are
all a full size too big. I’ve cut them into fabric strips and made an
ottoman of them.


Well, uh, Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly– but l– listen. Is
there a shorter name that I can call you, by the way?


Yes.


Oh! What is it?


I’ll whisper it into your ear.


Uh?


Ohhh…really?


Don’t tell!


OK, I won’t!


Don’t tell!


OK. All right, all right.


Well. Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in Your Home, uh, even if
you are safe from librarians, um, shouldn’t your top concern as
mayoral candidate be for the safety of your constituents?


Yes, it should. But “should” and “is” are different words for
many reasons. Spelling is one reason; there are other reasons. It’s
understandable you’re alarmed, but…it’s also quite dull. I’m bored
with your fear. I want to talk about the death you cannot see, the
dangers you do not fear because you do not know. That is interesting
to me.


Now, what dangers do we not see? Please, please tell us.


OK, she’s whispering in my ear again…


What? Him? Oh, he’s so sweet!


Wha– her, too? Oh, that’s awful.


Oh, I actually don’t know him.


Well, most doctors don’t even know how to stop the swelling or stench
at all.


Oh, that’s terrible, Faceless Old Woman!


You meant “interesting.” You said “terrible,” you meant
“interesting.” Look, it’s all going to be OK.


It will? How?


Well, it actually won’t be. I was lying. But don’t worry, I’ll always
be there for you.


Oh, well that’s very sweet of you, Faceless Old Woman!


Oh, look. Diane Creighton has throat spiders. I need to see this.


Hello? Hellooo?


Well, it seems like she’s gone again.

Listeners,
the worst has just happened. We are getting reports that a librarian
has entered a theater. Thankfully, you are not one of those doomed
souls who risked their lives for something as 


as live theater! Ha ha ha! Ahh, ha ha! Ahh.


But let us all, as an exercise in empathy, imagine what it would be
like to be one of those unfortunates in their last oblivious moments.
Imagine you are in a theater. Imagine rows of seats. Imagine a stage.
Imagine amplification, and the person seated a row behind you
consistently whispering to their friend. Picture this. Picture
yourself as you would never be, in a crowd of listening strangers.


Now, imagine the librarian in the theater, not yet spotted in the
dark of the house. Imagine it slithering silently beneath the theater
seats. What if, hypothetical theater-goer, it were under the seat
that you were in right now?

Don’t
look! 


If it saw you, what would it decide to do to you?


OK, there is safety in numbers. Everyone at once, now, look!


There’s nothing there! You are safe in your imagined theater seat.
Or, maybe, the librarian anticipated your movement and slipped out of
view just as you looked. That is a possibility, too. What is
wonderful about this world is that anything is possible. Anything
that can eventually result in your death is possible.


Oh. Was that a dry, scaled hand upon your shoulder?


No, not that shoulder. No, it’s the other one. Yeah. It’s…


Oh. Ooohhhh. It keeps moving back and forth. And you begin to feel
breath faintly on the back of your neck. So faintly that you dismiss
it, over and over until it dismisses you for good.


And one by one by one, people are disappearing from their theater
seats without a sound, just a flash of red and a dark stain. And your
brain adjusts for this by remembering those seats as always having
been empty and moist.

And
then, then the screams start. First the left side of the theater! And
then the right side of the theater! And the entire theater is
screaming! And one person in the front row stands up, and they are
tearing at their hair, and they are howling!

And
wait! Wait! The 


front row stands up, and the entire front row is clutching at their
chests, and they are screaming louder than the entire theater
combined!


And then, there is silence.


Utter silence.


And the front row sits down.


And the silence is worse than the screams. And no one is saying
anything at all. And no one is making the slightest move. And the
librarian…it is above them.


Don’t look up!


And the librarian begins to descend, perhaps on a web, perhaps on
great black wings, perhaps with its tendrils wrapped around the walls
and the beams of the theater and it’s jaws begin to open and it
focuses on one single person.


And while that person waits, unknowingly, to get taken, I take all of
you, safe at home of course, not actually helpless in a theater, to
the weather!

[“

”
by 


and 

]


Listeners, good news! I mean, the news was always good for 

,
safe at home, with only a few hidden entities lurking around you (and
none of them quite as dangerous as librarians) but, the news is
surprisingly also good for those screaming victims trapped in the
theater.


The librarians have been recaptured.


Not by the Sheriff’s Secret Police, not by Tamika Flynn and her
valiant band of well-read child vigilantes, but by the librarians
themselves.


We have learned that the initial escapee was named Randall, and we
have also learned that Randall was trying to leave his job as a
librarian. He was curious about all the other jobs in the world, as
he had been born a librarian and had only ever known the secret evils
and dark magics of library science.


Randall wanted to know what it would be like to work as a
construction contractor, an auto body mechanic, a food coop manager,
a municipal park employee, a Hooded Figure. There is a whole world of
occupations and opportunities in America.


“It is a free country,” we regularly explain to ourselves,
without quite knowing what we mean.


And Randall even slipped into a theater to find out what it might be
like to be a folk singer, or an actor, or an usher, or just a regular
person – just a human, filled with regret and worry, trying to find
a moment outside of themselves by watching a live performance.

But
the librarians, knowing that they are not human (far from it), found
Randall and brought him back to the library. For while they are
terrible, blood-thirsty pseudo reptilians, librarians are also quite
organized. Just as they would never want a highly-researched
nonfiction travel guide like Stephen King’s 


series to end up in, say, Fiction, or a sci-fi fantasy comic book
like Pat Conroy’s 


to end up in Religious Studies, librarians also know that they should
never be seen or felt or heard outside of a library. Librarians know
that they cannot enter society and coexist with humans without
succumbing to intense hunger and curiosity and…tearing us all into
pink pulpy piles of post-existence.


So, they dragged unhappy Randall from the theater, along with a
couple of collateral audience members.


And the people in the theater were filled with relief, and shaking
with the echo of their terror. And they each turned to a person
seated near them – not a person that they came with – they each
turned to a complete stranger and they said, to that stranger, “You
are alive for now.”


And then they said, to that stranger, “Congratulations.” And then
they shared a couple of moments of eye contact to acknowledge the
unlikelihood of that claim.


One…two…and then they turned away, uncomfortable with all that
eyeballs and vision might imply, and then they said, to that
stranger, “Well, it was nice to meet you.” And then, each one of
them said, “My name’s Amanda,” even though very few of them were
actually named Amanda. Very few.


Then the show went on, and that moment of exchange hung between all
the strangers in the audience, latent, and invisible. Perhaps to be
reprised later, or perhaps already only existing in the poor
reconstruction of memory.

As
usual, we had nothing to fear. And, in saying that, I mean we have



to fear.


Death is slotted for us all, and maybe it is years from now – in a
soft bed, surrounded by the soft eyes of the people that we love –
or, maybe, it is not so many years from now at all. And we have every
reason to be afraid. But we also need to learn to put that fear
aside, like a library book. Sometimes we need to check out our fear,
and– and– and read it, and– and study it and peruse it closely,
but at a certain point return it to its proper shelf and experience
something else.


Contentment.


Worry.


Calm.


Hunger.


Spinal parasites.


And a great deal of love, of every kind.


So put that fear in a place where you can find it when you need it,
but don’t carry it with you! Don’t carry it with you.


Stay tuned next for a shuffling movement outwards, the dimming of
lights, and a large hall left empty and silent until the next time it
is not.


Goodnight to all of you, listeners.


And goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.


Welcome to Night Vale is a production of Commonplace Books. It is
written by Joseph Fink and Jeffrey Cranor.


Original music by Disparition, led by John Bernstein, featuring
Deepthi Welaratna, Valerie Evering, Kyra Simms, and Dan Harpaz.


Today’s weather was “Serpentine Cycle of Money” by Danny Schmidt
and Carrie Elkin.


The voice of intern Andrew was Andrew WK.


The voice of Deb was Meg Bashwiner.


The voice of Tamika Flynn was Symphony Sanders.


The voice of Michelle Nguyen was Kate Jones.


The voice of Steve Carlsberg was Hal Lublin.


The voice of Carlos was New York City’s own Dylan Marron.


The voice of the Faceless Old Woman was Mara Wilson.


The voice of Night Vale is Cecil Baldwin.


Thank you so much, New York City, you’ve been a wonderful audience! A
big thank you to the Skirball Center for having us tonight. Thank you
all so very much for listening. Please get home safely.


Goodnight.


Hello, Cecil.


Intern James? Wait, how wonderful to hear from you again! Are…are
you inside the library?


Yes. I found my way into the library. It’s very dark here. The
construction crew is standing over the collapsed scaffolding, poking
at it with sticks, and ordering it to put itself back together again.
Their antennas are at the non-aggressive position so I don’t think
they realize the danger they’re in.


Be careful, James! But also, be closer to the story. Be 


closer, and tell us what you see.


I’m walking between the shelves. There are books all around me. I
don’t feel safe around so many books. There are small wallows here
and there where a librarian has nested for the night. Some of them
look quite fresh.


Just move quietly. There could still be an actual libr–  



There’s a librarian! It’s seen me! It has me trapped in the biography
section! There are many books about Helen Hunt. There are also some
books about Sean Penn. I have no choice, I have to fight my way out!


You will never survive! Just pretend that you don’t exist and hope
that the librarian shares your delusion.


It’s too late! I have my fencing sword in my hand. Say goodbye to my
mother. Wherever she buried herself after the mine closed, I’ll do
her proud.


I will.


And say goodbye to my best friend Johann, and my second-best friend
Jamie, and– and my tied-for-third best friends Xerxes and Hasad.
Wish them well on their artisanal upholstery business. Cover those
chairs, my sweetest friends. Cover those chairs!


OK. OK.


And say goodbye to the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in My
Home. I don’t know what I would have done without her. Probably
mostly the same things I always did, 'cause I didn’t know she was
there until she…until she started running for mayor. And I’m not
clear how she’s 


living 

.
How is it a secret at this point? Ask her that. And kind of smirk
when you do. Lean back and cross your arms, too.


More…great, do that.


OK…


For me.


OK. Um, I– is that all…


And say goodbye to Cecil. Tell him his voice is like swimming in a
clear, cold underground river.


No, but I’m…I’m Cecil.


Tell him that for me, alright?


Going in. This will be a perilous and lengthy struggle. We will be
intertwined in a gruesome embrace until one of us dies. Maybe hours
from now. Maybe days.


For Night Vale!

Oh…I–
Oh–  Wh– 


To the family of intern James Urbaniak…


Cecil, do you copy?


Intern Molly? What…this is– this is great to hear from you again.
What…are you in the library?


Yes. I found my way into the library. It’s very dark in here. The
construction crew is standing over the collapsed scaffolding, poking
at it with sticks, and ordering it to put itself back together again.
Their antennas are at the non-aggressive position, so I don’t think
they realize the danger they’re in.


Wh– just be careful, Molly! But also, get closer to the story. Get



closer, and tell us everything you see.


I’m walking between the shelves. There are books all around me. I
don’t feel safe around so many books. There are small wallows here
and there where a librarian has nested for the night. Some of them
look quite fresh.


OK. Just move…move quietly. There could be an actual librarian
still roaming around…


There is a librarian! It sees me! It has me trapped in the biography
section! There are many books about Helen Hunt. There are also some
books about Sean Penn. I have no choice. I will have to fight my way
out!


No! No no no! You would never survive! Just…just pretend that you
don’t exist and hope that the librarian shares your delusion.


Oh, it’s too late! I have my fencing sword in my hand. Say goodbye to
my mother. Wherever she buried herself after the mine closed, I’ll do
her proud.


Yes. I…I will.


And say goodbye to my best friend Joan, and my second-best friend
Jamie, and my tied-for-third best friends Xerxes and Hasad. Wish them
well on their artisanal upholstery business. Cover those chairs, my
sweetest friends. Cover those chairs!


OK.


And say goodbye to the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in My
Home. I don’t know what I would have done without her. Well, probably
mostly the same things I always did, because I didn’t know she was
there until she started running for mayor. And now…you know, now
I’m not clear how she’s 


living anywhere. How is it a secret, at this point? Ask her that.
Kind of…kind of smirk while you do. Lean back and cross your arms.


Little bit more. Yeah, just like that. Do that for me.


OK. Is– is that…


And say goodbye to Cecil. Tell him his voice is like swimming in a
clear, cold underground river.


No, I am Cecil, and…


Tell him that for me! Tell him for me.


All right, I’m going in. This will be a perilous and lengthy
struggle. We will be intertwined in a gruesome embrace until one of
us dies. Maybe hours from now, maybe days.


For Night Vale!

Oh…augghhhh!



Cecil: To the family of intern Molly Quinn…


Hello, Cecil?


Intern Wil? Well, it’s wonderful to hear from you again. Are you in
the library?


Yes. I found my way into the library. It’s very dark in here. The
construction crew is standing over the collapsed scaffolding, poking
at it with sticks, and…and ordering it to put itself back together
again. Their antennas are in the non-aggressive position, so I don’t
think they realize the danger they’re in.


Wh– Be careful, Wil! But also, be closer to the story. Be 


closer, and tell us what you see.


I am…I’m walking between the shelves. There are books all around
me. I don’t feel safe around so many books. Uh, there are small
wallows here and there where a librarian has nested for the night.
Some of them look quite fresh.


OK. Move quietly. There could be a librarian…


There is a librarian! It’s seen me! It…it has me trapped in the
biography section. Uh, there are many books here about Helen Hunt.
There…there are also some books about Sean Penn. I have no choice.
I will have to fight my way out.


No! You would never survive! Just pretend that you don’t exist and
hope that the librarian shares your delusion.


It’s too late, Cecil. I have my fencing sword in hand. Say goodbye to
my mother. Wherever she buried herself after the mine closed, I will
do her proud.


I will make sure…


And say goodbye to my best friend Joanne, and my second-best friend
Jamie, and my tied-for-third best friends Xerxes and Hasad. Wish them
well on their artisinal upholstery business. Cover those chairs, my
sweetest friends. Cover those chairs!


OK.


And say goodbye to the Faceless Old Woman Who Secretly Lives in My
Home. I don’t know what I would have done without her. I…perhaps
mostly the same things I always did? Because I didn’t know she was
there until she started running for mayor. And now I’m not clear how
she’s 


living anywhere? How is it a secret, at this point? Ask her that. Uh,
kind of smirk a little bit when you do. Like, lean back and cross
your arms, too.


Yeah, a little more. Great. Yes. Yes. Do that for me.


OK. All right. Now…


And say goodbye to Cecil. Tell him his voice is like swimming in a
clear, cold underground river.


Now, wait a minute, I am Cecil!


Tell him for me! Tell him!


All right, I’m going in. This will be a perilous and lengthy
struggle. We will be intertwined in a gruesome embrace until one of
us dies. Maybe hours from now, maybe days.


For Night Vale!

Yaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhh!
Hahaaaaaaaaa! 


Cecil: To the family of intern Wil Wheaton…


Listeners, here, though, is something to be excited about. We are
introducing a brand new segment. It is “Louie Blasko’s Music
Moment.”


And now, let’s bring out Louie himself.


Thanks for having me.


Now, Louie, last time we heard, you had burned down your music shop
for the insurance money and then skipped town. Um, how was that?


Thanks for having me.


And since then, you have been appearing in frightened children’s
mirrors to teach them the basics of music theory and some simple
bluegrass licks before, uh, taking their souls with you into the dark
of the mirror world. Is that right?


You know, thank you so much for having me.


Wonderful. All right, Louie. Let’s learn some bluegrass!


Right. Hello, listeners! Thanks for having me. I want to start out
with something really, really simple. This is a basic G major scale.


Great! Um, that seems really easy!


Yeah, you have no idea how easy it can be. So, now that we know a G
major scale, we can start doing some simple bluegrass licks around
those notes. Here’s a real easy one.


Wow, I think…I think even somebody like an old fumble-hands like me
could handle that one, right?


It’s amazing what the human body is capable of. So now, let’s take
everything we’ve learned so far, and try putting it all together.
Check this out.


So you see, it’s really, really easy to take these basic elements and
recombine them to make something original, catchy, and fun.


Yeah! You know, for a second there I could actually see nothing at
all. That’s fun!


Well yes, uh, thanks for having me. I’ll see you again soon. I’ll see
all of you again real soon. Thanks for having me. Thanks. I’ll see
you all soon.


Wow. Thank you, Louie! Haha!

